DVENTURE I. A SCANDAL IN BOHEMIA

I.

To Sherlock Holmes she is always THE woman. I have seldom heard
him mention her under any other name. In his eyes she eclipses
and predominates the whole of her sex. It was not that he felt
any emotion akin to love for Irene Adler. All emotions, and that
one particularly, were abhorrent to his cold, precise but
admirably balanced mind. He was, I take it, the most perfect
reasoning and observing machine that the world has seen, but as a
lover he would have placed himself in a false position. He never
spoke of the softer passions, save with a gibe and a sneer. They
were admirable things for the observer--excellent for drawing the
veil from men's motives and actions. But for the trained reasoner
to admit such intrusions into his own delicate and finely
adjusted temperament was to introduce a distracting factor which
might throw a doubt upon all his mental results. Grit in a
sensitive instrument, or a crack in one of his own high-power
lenses, would not be more disturbing than a strong emotion in a
nature such as his. And yet there was but one woman to him, and
that woman was the late Irene Adler, of dubious and questionable
memory.

I had seen little of Holmes lately. My marriage had drifted us
away from each other. My own complete happiness, and the
home-centred interests which rise up around the man who first
finds himself master of his own establishment, were sufficient to
absorb all my attention, while Holmes, who loathed every form of
society with his whole Bohemian soul, remained in our lodgings in
Baker Street, buried among his old books, and alternating from
week to week between cocaine and ambition, the drowsiness of the
drug, and the fierce energy of his own keen nature. He was still,
as ever, deeply attracted by the study of crime, and occupied his
immense faculties and extraordinary powers of observation in
following out those clues, and clearing up those mysteries which
had been abandoned as hopeless by the official police. From time
to time I heard some vague account of his doings: of his summons
to Odessa in the case of the Trepoff murder, of his clearing up
of the singular tragedy of the Atkinson brothers at Trincomalee,
and finally of the mission which he had accomplished so
delicately and successfully for the reigning family of Holland.
Beyond these signs of his activity, however, which I merely
shared with all the readers of the daily press, I knew little of
my former friend and companion.

One night--it was on the twentieth of March, 1888--I was
returning from a journey to a patient (for I had now returned to
civil practice), when my way led me through Baker Street. As I
passed the well-remembered door, which must always be associated
in my mind with my wooing, and with the dark incidents of the
Study in Scarlet, I was seized with a keen desire to see Holmes
again, and to know how he was employing his extraordinary powers.
His rooms were brilliantly lit, and, even as I looked up, I saw
his tall, spare figure pass twice in a dark silhouette against
the blind. He was pacing the room swiftly, eagerly, with his head
sunk upon his chest and his hands clasped behind him. To me, who
knew his every mood and habit, his attitude and manner told their
own story. He was at work again. He had risen out of his
drug-created dreams and was hot upon the scent of some new
problem. I rang the bell and was shown up to the chamber which
had formerly been in part my own.

His manner was not effusive. It seldom was; but he was glad, I
think, to see me. With hardly a word spoken, but with a kindly
eye, he waved me to an armchair, threw across his case of cigars,
and indicated a spirit case and a gasogene in the corner. Then he
stood before the fire and looked me over in his singular
introspective fashion.

"Wedlock suits you," he remarked. "I think, Watson, that you have
put on seven and a half pounds since I saw you."

"Seven!" I answered.

"Indeed, I should have thought a little more. Just a trifle more,
I fancy, Watson. And in practice again, I observe. You did not
tell me that you intended to go into harness."

"Then, how do you know?"

"I see it, I deduce it. How do I know that you have been getting
yourself very wet lately, and that you have a most clumsy and
careless servant girl?"

"My dear Holmes," said I, "this is too much. You would certainly
have been burned, had you lived a few centuries ago. It is true
that I had a country walk on Thursday and came home in a dreadful
mess, but as I have changed my clothes I can't imagine how you
deduce it. As to Mary Jane, she is incorrigible, and my wife has
given her notice, but there, again, I fail to see how you work it
out."

He chuckled to himself and rubbed his long, nervous hands
together.

"It is simplicity itself," said he; "my eyes tell me that on the
inside of your left shoe, just where the firelight strikes it,
the leather is scored by six almost parallel cuts. Obviously they
have been caused by someone who has very carelessly scraped round
the edges of the sole in order to remove crusted mud from it.
Hence, you see, my double deduction that you had been out in vile
weather, and that you had a particularly malignant boot-slitting
specimen of the London slavey. As to your practice, if a
gentleman walks into my rooms smelling of iodoform, with a black
mark of nitrate of silver upon his right forefinger, and a bulge
on the right side of his top-hat to show where he has secreted
his stethoscope, I must be dull, indeed, if I do not pronounce
him to be an active member of the medical profession."

I could not help laughing at the ease with which he explained his
process of deduction. "When I hear you give your reasons," I
remarked, "the thing always appears to me to be so ridiculously
simple that I could easily do it myself, though at each
successive instance of your reasoning I am baffled until you
explain your process. And yet I believe that my eyes are as good
as yours."

"Quite so," he answered, lighting a cigarette, and throwing
himself down into an armchair. "You see, but you do not observe.
The distinction is clear. For example, you have frequently seen
the steps which lead up from the hall to this room."

"Frequently."

"How often?"

"Well, some hundreds of times."

"Then how many are there?"

"How many? I don't know."

"Quite so! You have not observed. And yet you have seen. That is
just my point. Now, I know that there are seventeen steps,
because I have both seen and observed. By-the-way, since you are
interested in these little problems, and since you are good
enough to chronicle one or two of my trifling experiences, you
may be interested in this." He threw over a sheet of thick,
pink-tinted note-paper which had been lying open upon the table.
"It came by the last post," said he. "Read it aloud."

The note was undated, and without either signature or address.

"There will call upon you to-night, at a quarter to eight
o'clock," it said, "a gentleman who desires to consult you upon a
matter of the very deepest moment. Your recent services to one of
the royal houses of Europe have shown that you are one who may
safely be trusted with matters which are of an importance which
can hardly be exaggerated. This account of you we have from all
quarters received. Be in your chamber then at that hour, and do
not take it amiss if your visitor wear a mask."

"This is indeed a mystery," I remarked. "What do you imagine that
it means?"

"I have no data yet. It is a capital mistake to theorize before
one has data. Insensibly one begins to twist facts to suit
theories, instead of theories to suit facts. But the note itself.
What do you deduce from it?"

I carefully examined the writing, and the paper upon which it was
written.

"The man who wrote it was presumably well to do," I remarked,
endeavouring to imitate my companion's processes. "Such paper
could not be bought under half a crown a packet. It is peculiarly
strong and stiff."

"Peculiar--that is the very word," said Holmes. "It is not an
English paper at all. Hold it up to the light."

I did so, and saw a large "E" with a small "g," a "P," and a
large "G" with a small "t" woven into the texture of the paper.

"What do you make of that?" asked Holmes.

"The name of the maker, no doubt; or his monogram, rather."

"Not at all. The 'G' with the small 't' stands for
'Gesellschaft,' which is the German for 'Company.' It is a
customary contraction like our 'Co.' 'P,' of course, stands for
'Papier.' Now for the 'Eg.' Let us glance at our Continental
Gazetteer." He took down a heavy brown volume from his shelves.
"Eglow, Eglonitz--here we are, Egria. It is in a German-speaking
country--in Bohemia, not far from Carlsbad. 'Remarkable as being
the scene of the death of Wallenstein, and for its numerous
glass-factories and paper-mills.' Ha, ha, my boy, what do you
make of that?" His eyes sparkled, and he sent up a great blue
triumphant cloud from his cigarette.

"The paper was made in Bohemia," I said.

"Precisely. And the man who wrote the note is a German. Do you
note the peculiar construction of the sentence--'This account of
you we have from all quarters received.' A Frenchman or Russian
could not have written that. It is the German who is so
uncourteous to his verbs. It only remains, therefore, to discover
what is wanted by this German who writes upon Bohemian paper and
prefers wearing a mask to showing his face. And here he comes, if
I am not mistaken, to resolve all our doubts."

As he spoke there was the sharp sound of horses' hoofs and
grating wheels against the curb, followed by a sharp pull at the
bell. Holmes whistled.

"A pair, by the sound," said he. "Yes," he continued, glancing
out of the window. "A nice little brougham and a pair of
beauties. A hundred and fifty guineas apiece. There's money in
this case, Watson, if there is nothing else."

"I think that I had better go, Holmes."

"Not a bit, Doctor. Stay where you are. I am lost without my
Boswell. And this promises to be interesting. It would be a pity
to miss it."

"But your client--"

"Never mind him. I may want your help, and so may he. Here he
comes. Sit down in that armchair, Doctor, and give us your best
attention."

A slow and heavy step, which had been heard upon the stairs and
in the passage, paused immediately outside the door. Then there
was a loud and authoritative tap.

"Come in!" said Holmes.

A man entered who could hardly have been less than six feet six
inches in height, with the chest and limbs of a Hercules. His
dress was rich with a richness which would, in England, be looked
upon as akin to bad taste. Heavy bands of astrakhan were slashed
across the sleeves and fronts of his double-breasted coat, while
the deep blue cloak which was thrown over his shoulders was lined
with flame-coloured silk and secured at the neck with a brooch
which consisted of a single flaming beryl. Boots which extended
halfway up his calves, and which were trimmed at the tops with
rich brown fur, completed the impression of barbaric opulence
which was suggested by his whole appearance. He carried a
broad-brimmed hat in his hand, while he wore across the upper
part of his face, extending down past the cheekbones, a black
vizard mask, which he had apparently adjusted that very moment,
for his hand was still raised to it as he entered. From the lower
part of the face he appeared to be a man of strong character,
with a thick, hanging lip, and a long, straight chin suggestive
of resolution pushed to the length of obstinacy.

"You had my note?" he asked with a deep harsh voice and a
strongly marked German accent. "I told you that I would call." He
looked from one to the other of us, as if uncertain which to
address.

"Pray take a seat," said Holmes. "This is my friend and
colleague, Dr. Watson, who is occasionally good enough to help me
in my cases. Whom have I the honour to address?"

"You may address me as the Count Von Kramm, a Bohemian nobleman.
I understand that this gentleman, your friend, is a man of honour
and discretion, whom I may trust with a matter of the most
extreme importance. If not, I should much prefer to communicate
with you alone."

I rose to go, but Holmes caught me by the wrist and pushed me
back into my chair. "It is both, or none," said he. "You may say
before this gentleman anything which you may say to me."

The Count shrugged his broad shoulders. "Then I must begin," said
he, "by binding you both to absolute secrecy for two years; at
the end of that time the matter will be of no importance. At
present it is not too much to say that it is of such weight it
may have an influence upon European history."

"I promise," said Holmes.

"And I."

"You will excuse this mask," continued our strange visitor. "The
august person who employs me wishes his agent to be unknown to
you, and I may confess at once that the title by which I have
just called myself is not exactly my own."

"I was aware of it," said Holmes dryly.

"The circumstances are of great delicacy, and every precaution
has to be taken to quench what might grow to be an immense
scandal and seriously compromise one of the reigning families of
Europe. To speak plainly, the matter implicates the great House
of Ormstein, hereditary kings of Bohemia."

"I was also aware of that," murmured Holmes, settling himself
down in his armchair and closing his eyes.

Our visitor glanced with some apparent surprise at the languid,
lounging figure of the man who had been no doubt depicted to him
as the most incisive reasoner and most energetic agent in Europe.
Holmes slowly reopened his eyes and looked impatiently at his
gigantic client.

"If your Majesty would condescend to state your case," he
remarked, "I should be better able to advise you."

The man sprang from his chair and paced up and down the room in
uncontrollable agitation. Then, with a gesture of desperation, he
tore the mask from his face and hurled it upon the ground. "You
are right," he cried; "I am the King. Why should I attempt to
conceal it?"

"Why, indeed?" murmured Holmes. "Your Majesty had not spoken
before I was aware that I was addressing Wilhelm Gottsreich
Sigismond von Ormstein, Grand Duke of Cassel-Felstein, and
hereditary King of Bohemia."

"But you can understand," said our strange visitor, sitting down
once more and passing his hand over his high white forehead, "you
can understand that I am not accustomed to doing such business in
my own person. Yet the matter was so delicate that I could not
confide it to an agent without putting myself in his power. I
have come incognito from Prague for the purpose of consulting
you."

"Then, pray consult," said Holmes, shutting his eyes once more.

"The facts are briefly these: Some five years ago, during a
lengthy visit to Warsaw, I made the acquaintance of the well-known
adventuress, Irene Adler. The name is no doubt familiar to you."

"Kindly look her up in my index, Doctor," murmured Holmes without
opening his eyes. For many years he had adopted a system of
docketing all paragraphs concerning men and things, so that it
was difficult to name a subject or a person on which he could not
at once furnish information. In this case I found her biography
sandwiched in between that of a Hebrew rabbi and that of a
staff-commander who had written a monograph upon the deep-sea
fishes.

"Let me see!" said Holmes. "Hum! Born in New Jersey in the year
1858. Contralto--hum! La Scala, hum! Prima donna Imperial Opera
of Warsaw--yes! Retired from operatic stage--ha! Living in
London--quite so! Your Majesty, as I understand, became entangled
with this young person, wrote her some compromising letters, and
is now desirous of getting those letters back."

"Precisely so. But how--"

"Was there a secret marriage?"

"None."

"No legal papers or certificates?"

"None."

"Then I fail to follow your Majesty. If this young person should
produce her letters for blackmailing or other purposes, how is
she to prove their authenticity?"

"There is the writing."

"Pooh, pooh! Forgery."

"My private note-paper."

"Stolen."

"My own seal."

"Imitated."

"My photograph."

"Bought."

"We were both in the photograph."

"Oh, dear! That is very bad! Your Majesty has indeed committed an
indiscretion."

"I was mad--insane."

"You have compromised yourself seriously."

"I was only Crown Prince then. I was young. I am but thirty now."

"It must be recovered."

"We have tried and failed."

"Your Majesty must pay. It must be bought."

"She will not sell."

"Stolen, then."

"Five attempts have been made. Twice burglars in my pay ransacked
her house. Once we diverted her luggage when she travelled. Twice
she has been waylaid. There has been no result."

"No sign of it?"

"Absolutely none."

Holmes laughed. "It is quite a pretty little problem," said he.

"But a very serious one to me," returned the King reproachfully.

"Very, indeed. And what does she propose to do with the
photograph?"

"To ruin me."

"But how?"

"I am about to be married."

"So I have heard."

"To Clotilde Lothman von Saxe-Meningen, second daughter of the
King of Scandinavia. You may know the strict principles of her
family. She is herself the very soul of delicacy. A shadow of a
doubt as to my conduct would bring the matter to an end."

"And Irene Adler?"

"Threatens to send them the photograph. And she will do it. I
know that she will do it. You do not know her, but she has a soul
of steel. She has the face of the most beautiful of women, and
the mind of the most resolute of men. Rather than I should marry
another woman, there are no lengths to which she would not
go--none."

"You are sure that she has not sent it yet?"

"I am sure."

"And why?"

"Because she has said that she would send it on the day when the
betrothal was publicly proclaimed. That will be next Monday."

"Oh, then we have three days yet," said Holmes with a yawn. "That
is very fortunate, as I have one or two matters of importance to
look into just at present. Your Majesty will, of course, stay in
London for the present?"

"Certainly. You will find me at the Langham under the name of the
Count Von Kramm."

"Then I shall drop you a line to let you know how we progress."

"Pray do so. I shall be all anxiety."

"Then, as to money?"

"You have carte blanche."

"Absolutely?"

"I tell you that I would give one of the provinces of my kingdom
to have that photograph."

"And for present expenses?"

The King took a heavy chamois leather bag from under his cloak
and laid it on the table.

"There are three hundred pounds in gold and seven hundred in
notes," he said.

Holmes scribbled a receipt upon a sheet of his note-book and
handed it to him.

"And Mademoiselle's address?" he asked.

"Is Briony Lodge, Serpentine Avenue, St. John's Wood."

Holmes took a note of it. "One other question," said he. "Was the
photograph a cabinet?"

"It was."

"Then, good-night, your Majesty, and I trust that we shall soon
have some good news for you. And good-night, Watson," he added,
as the wheels of the royal brougham rolled down the street. "If
you will be good enough to call to-morrow afternoon at three
o'clock I should like to chat this little matter over with you."


II.

At three o'clock precisely I was at Baker Street, but Holmes had
not yet returned. The landlady informed me that he had left the
house shortly after eight o'clock in the morning. I sat down
beside the fire, however, with the intention of awaiting him,
however long he might be. I was already deeply interested in his
inquiry, for, though it was surrounded by none of the grim and
strange features which were associated with the two crimes which
I have already recorded, still, the nature of the case and the
exalted station of his client gave it a character of its own.
Indeed, apart from the nature of the investigation which my
friend had on hand, there was something in his masterly grasp of
a situation, and his keen, incisive reasoning, which made it a
pleasure to me to study his system of work, and to follow the
quick, subtle methods by which he disentangled the most
inextricable mysteries. So accustomed was I to his invariable
success that the very possibility of his failing had ceased to
enter into my head.

It was close upon four before the door opened, and a
drunken-looking groom, ill-kempt and side-whiskered, with an
inflamed face and disreputable clothes, walked into the room.
Accustomed as I was to my friend's amazing powers in the use of
disguises, I had to look three times before I was certain that it
was indeed he. With a nod he vanished into the bedroom, whence he
emerged in five minutes tweed-suited and respectable, as of old.
Putting his hands into his pockets, he stretched out his legs in
front of the fire and laughed heartily for some minutes.

"Well, really!" he cried, and then he choked and laughed again
until he was obliged to lie back, limp and helpless, in the
chair.

"What is it?"

"It's quite too funny. I am sure you could never guess how I
employed my morning, or what I ended by doing."

"I can't imagine. I suppose that you have been watching the
habits, and perhaps the house, of Miss Irene Adler."

"Quite so; but the sequel was rather unusual. I will tell you,
however. I left the house a little after eight o'clock this
morning in the character of a groom out of work. There is a
wonderful sympathy and freemasonry among horsey men. Be one of
them, and you will know all that there is to know. I soon found
Briony Lodge. It is a bijou villa, with a garden at the back, but
built out in front right up to the road, two stories. Chubb lock
to the door. Large sitting-room on the right side, well
furnished, with long windows almost to the floor, and those
preposterous English window fasteners which a child could open.
Behind there was nothing remarkable, save that the passage window
could be reached from the top of the coach-house. I walked round
it and examined it closely from every point of view, but without
noting anything else of interest.

"I then lounged down the street and found, as I expected, that
there was a mews in a lane which runs down by one wall of the
garden. I lent the ostlers a hand in rubbing down their horses,
and received in exchange twopence, a glass of half and half, two
fills of shag tobacco, and as much information as I could desire
about Miss Adler, to say nothing of half a dozen other people in
the neighbourhood in whom I was not in the least interested, but
whose biographies I was compelled to listen to."

"And what of Irene Adler?" I asked.

"Oh, she has turned all the men's heads down in that part. She is
the daintiest thing under a bonnet on this planet. So say the
Serpentine-mews, to a man. She lives quietly, sings at concerts,
drives out at five every day, and returns at seven sharp for
dinner. Seldom goes out at other times, except when she sings.
Has only one male visitor, but a good deal of him. He is dark,
handsome, and dashing, never calls less than once a day, and
often twice. He is a Mr. Godfrey Norton, of the Inner Temple. See
the advantages of a cabman as a confidant. They had driven him
home a dozen times from Serpentine-mews, and knew all about him.
When I had listened to all they had to tell, I began to walk up
and down near Briony Lodge once more, and to think over my plan
of campaign.

"This Godfrey Norton was evidently an important factor in the
matter. He was a lawyer. That sounded ominous. What was the
relation between them, and what the object of his repeated
visits? Was she his client, his friend, or his mistress? If the
former, she had probably transferred the photograph to his
keeping. If the latter, it was less likely. On the issue of this
question depended whether I should continue my work at Briony
Lodge, or turn my attention to the gentleman's chambers in the
Temple. It was a delicate point, and it widened the field of my
inquiry. I fear that I bore you with these details, but I have to
let you see my little difficulties, if you are to understand the
situation."

"I am following you closely," I answered.

"I was still balancing the matter in my mind when a hansom cab
drove up to Briony Lodge, and a gentleman sprang out. He was a
remarkably handsome man, dark, aquiline, and moustached--evidently
the man of whom I had heard. He appeared to be in a
great hurry, shouted to the cabman to wait, and brushed past the
maid who opened the door with the air of a man who was thoroughly
at home.

"He was in the house about half an hour, and I could catch
glimpses of him in the windows of the sitting-room, pacing up and
down, talking excitedly, and waving his arms. Of her I could see
nothing. Presently he emerged, looking even more flurried than
before. As he stepped up to the cab, he pulled a gold watch from
his pocket and looked at it earnestly, 'Drive like the devil,' he
shouted, 'first to Gross & Hankey's in Regent Street, and then to
the Church of St. Monica in the Edgeware Road. Half a guinea if
you do it in twenty minutes!'

"Away they went, and I was just wondering whether I should not do
well to follow them when up the lane came a neat little landau,
the coachman with his coat only half-buttoned, and his tie under
his ear, while all the tags of his harness were sticking out of
the buckles. It hadn't pulled up before she shot out of the hall
door and into it. I only caught a glimpse of her at the moment,
but she was a lovely woman, with a face that a man might die for.

"'The Church of St. Monica, John,' she cried, 'and half a
sovereign if you reach it in twenty minutes.'

"This was quite too good to lose, Watson. I was just balancing
whether I should run for it, or whether I should perch behind her
landau when a cab came through the street. The driver looked
twice at such a shabby fare, but I jumped in before he could
object. 'The Church of St. Monica,' said I, 'and half a sovereign
if you reach it in twenty minutes.' It was twenty-five minutes to
twelve, and of course it was clear enough what was in the wind.

"My cabby drove fast. I don't think I ever drove faster, but the
others were there before us. The cab and the landau with their
steaming horses were in front of the door when I arrived. I paid
the man and hurried into the church. There was not a soul there
save the two whom I had followed and a surpliced clergyman, who
seemed to be expostulating with them. They were all three
standing in a knot in front of the altar. I lounged up the side
aisle like any other idler who has dropped into a church.
Suddenly, to my surprise, the three at the altar faced round to
me, and Godfrey Norton came running as hard as he could towards
me.

"'Thank God,' he cried. 'You'll do. Come! Come!'

"'What then?' I asked.

"'Come, man, come, only three minutes, or it won't be legal.'

"I was half-dragged up to the altar, and before I knew where I was
I found myself mumbling responses which were whispered in my ear,
and vouching for things of which I knew nothing, and generally
assisting in the secure tying up of Irene Adler, spinster, to
Godfrey Norton, bachelor. It was all done in an instant, and
there was the gentleman thanking me on the one side and the lady
on the other, while the clergyman beamed on me in front. It was
the most preposterous position in which I ever found myself in my
life, and it was the thought of it that started me laughing just
now. It seems that there had been some informality about their
license, that the clergyman absolutely refused to marry them
without a witness of some sort, and that my lucky appearance
saved the bridegroom from having to sally out into the streets in
search of a best man. The bride gave me a sovereign, and I mean
to wear it on my watch-chain in memory of the occasion."

"This is a very unexpected turn of affairs," said I; "and what
then?"

"Well, I found my plans very seriously menaced. It looked as if
the pair might take an immediate departure, and so necessitate
very prompt and energetic measures on my part. At the church
door, however, they separated, he driving back to the Temple, and
she to her own house. 'I shall drive out in the park at five as
usual,' she said as she left him. I heard no more. They drove
away in different directions, and I went off to make my own
arrangements."

"Which are?"

"Some cold beef and a glass of beer," he answered, ringing the
bell. "I have been too busy to think of food, and I am likely to
be busier still this evening. By the way, Doctor, I shall want
your co-operation."

"I shall be delighted."

"You don't mind breaking the law?"

"Not in the least."

"Nor running a chance of arrest?"

"Not in a good cause."

"Oh, the cause is excellent!"

"Then I am your man."

"I was sure that I might rely on you."

"But what is it you wish?"

"When Mrs. Turner has brought in the tray I will make it clear to
you. Now," he said as he turned hungrily on the simple fare that
our landlady had provided, "I must discuss it while I eat, for I
have not much time. It is nearly five now. In two hours we must
be on the scene of action. Miss Irene, or Madame, rather, returns
from her drive at seven. We must be at Briony Lodge to meet her."

"And what then?"

"You must leave that to me. I have already arranged what is to
occur. There is only one point on which I must insist. You must
not interfere, come what may. You understand?"

"I am to be neutral?"

"To do nothing whatever. There will probably be some small
unpleasantness. Do not join in it. It will end in my being
conveyed into the house. Four or five minutes afterwards the
sitting-room window will open. You are to station yourself close
to that open window."

"Yes."

"You are to watch me, for I will be visible to you."

"Yes."

"And when I raise my hand--so--you will throw into the room what
I give you to throw, and will, at the same time, raise the cry of
fire. You quite follow me?"

"Entirely."

"It is nothing very formidable," he said, taking a long cigar-shaped
roll from his pocket. "It is an ordinary plumber's smoke-rocket,
fitted with a cap at either end to make it self-lighting.
Your task is confined to that. When you raise your cry of fire,
it will be taken up by quite a number of people. You may then
walk to the end of the street, and I will rejoin you in ten
minutes. I hope that I have made myself clear?"

"I am to remain neutral, to get near the window, to watch you,
and at the signal to throw in this object, then to raise the cry
of fire, and to wait you at the corner of the street."

"Precisely."

"Then you may entirely rely on me."

"That is excellent. I think, perhaps, it is almost time that I
prepare for the new role I have to play."

He disappeared into his bedroom and returned in a few minutes in
the character of an amiable and simple-minded Nonconformist
clergyman. His broad black hat, his baggy trousers, his white
tie, his sympathetic smile, and general look of peering and
benevolent curiosity were such as Mr. John Hare alone could have
equalled. It was not merely that Holmes changed his costume. His
expression, his manner, his very soul seemed to vary with every
fresh part that he assumed. The stage lost a fine actor, even as
science lost an acute reasoner, when he became a specialist in
crime.

It was a quarter past six when we left Baker Street, and it still
wanted ten minutes to the hour when we found ourselves in
Serpentine Avenue. It was already dusk, and the lamps were just
being lighted as we paced up and down in front of Briony Lodge,
waiting for the coming of its occupant. The house was just such
as I had pictured it from Sherlock Holmes' succinct description,
but the locality appeared to be less private than I expected. On
the contrary, for a small street in a quiet neighbourhood, it was
remarkably animated. There was a group of shabbily dressed men
smoking and laughing in a corner, a scissors-grinder with his
wheel, two guardsmen who were flirting with a nurse-girl, and
several well-dressed young men who were lounging up and down with
cigars in their mouths.

"You see," remarked Holmes, as we paced to and fro in front of
the house, "this marriage rather simplifies matters. The
photograph becomes a double-edged weapon now. The chances are
that she would be as averse to its being seen by Mr. Godfrey
Norton, as our client is to its coming to the eyes of his
princess. Now the question is, Where are we to find the
photograph?"

"Where, indeed?"

"It is most unlikely that she carries it about with her. It is
cabinet size. Too large for easy concealment about a woman's
dress. She knows that the King is capable of having her waylaid
and searched. Two attempts of the sort have already been made. We
may take it, then, that she does not carry it about with her."

"Where, then?"

"Her banker or her lawyer. There is that double possibility. But
I am inclined to think neither. Women are naturally secretive,
and they like to do their own secreting. Why should she hand it
over to anyone else? She could trust her own guardianship, but
she could not tell what indirect or political influence might be
brought to bear upon a business man. Besides, remember that she
had resolved to use it within a few days. It must be where she
can lay her hands upon it. It must be in her own house."

"But it has twice been burgled."

"Pshaw! They did not know how to look."

"But how will you look?"

"I will not look."

"What then?"

"I will get her to show me."

"But she will refuse."

"She will not be able to. But I hear the rumble of wheels. It is
her carriage. Now carry out my orders to the letter."

As he spoke the gleam of the side-lights of a carriage came round
the curve of the avenue. It was a smart little landau which
rattled up to the door of Briony Lodge. As it pulled up, one of
the loafing men at the corner dashed forward to open the door in
the hope of earning a copper, but was elbowed away by another
loafer, who had rushed up with the same intention. A fierce
quarrel broke out, which was increased by the two guardsmen, who
took sides with one of the loungers, and by the scissors-grinder,
who was equally hot upon the other side. A blow was struck, and
in an instant the lady, who had stepped from her carriage, was
the centre of a little knot of flushed and struggling men, who
struck savagely at each other with their fists and sticks. Holmes
dashed into the crowd to protect the lady; but just as he reached
her he gave a cry and dropped to the ground, with the blood
running freely down his face. At his fall the guardsmen took to
their heels in one direction and the loungers in the other, while
a number of better-dressed people, who had watched the scuffle
without taking part in it, crowded in to help the lady and to
attend to the injured man. Irene Adler, as I will still call her,
had hurried up the steps; but she stood at the top with her
superb figure outlined against the lights of the hall, looking
back into the street.

"Is the poor gentleman much hurt?" she asked.

"He is dead," cried several voices.

"No, no, there's life in him!" shouted another. "But he'll be
gone before you can get him to hospital."

"He's a brave fellow," said a woman. "They would have had the
lady's purse and watch if it hadn't been for him. They were a
gang, and a rough one, too. Ah, he's breathing now."

"He can't lie in the street. May we bring him in, marm?"

"Surely. Bring him into the sitting-room. There is a comfortable
sofa. This way, please!"

Slowly and solemnly he was borne into Briony Lodge and laid out
in the principal room, while I still observed the proceedings
from my post by the window. The lamps had been lit, but the
blinds had not been drawn, so that I could see Holmes as he lay
upon the couch. I do not know whether he was seized with
compunction at that moment for the part he was playing, but I
know that I never felt more heartily ashamed of myself in my life
than when I saw the beautiful creature against whom I was
conspiring, or the grace and kindliness with which she waited
upon the injured man. And yet it would be the blackest treachery
to Holmes to draw back now from the part which he had intrusted
to me. I hardened my heart, and took the smoke-rocket from under
my ulster. After all, I thought, we are not injuring her. We are
but preventing her from injuring another.

Holmes had sat up upon the couch, and I saw him motion like a man
who is in need of air. A maid rushed across and threw open the
window. At the same instant I saw him raise his hand and at the
signal I tossed my rocket into the room with a cry of "Fire!" The
word was no sooner out of my mouth than the whole crowd of
spectators, well dressed and ill--gentlemen, ostlers, and
servant-maids--joined in a general shriek of "Fire!" Thick clouds
of smoke curled through the room and out at the open window. I
caught a glimpse of rushing figures, and a moment later the voice
of Holmes from within assuring them that it was a false alarm.
Slipping through the shouting crowd I made my way to the corner
of the street, and in ten minutes was rejoiced to find my
friend's arm in mine, and to get away from the scene of uproar.
He walked swiftly and in silence for some few minutes until we
had turned down one of the quiet streets which lead towards the
Edgeware Road.

"You did it very nicely, Doctor," he remarked. "Nothing could
have been better. It is all right."

"You have the photograph?"

"I know where it is."

"And how did you find out?"

"She showed me, as I told you she would."

"I am still in the dark."

"I do not wish to make a mystery," said he, laughing. "The matter
was perfectly simple. You, of course, saw that everyone in the
street was an accomplice. They were all engaged for the evening."

"I guessed as much."

"Then, when the row broke out, I had a little moist red paint in
the palm of my hand. I rushed forward, fell down, clapped my hand
to my face, and became a piteous spectacle. It is an old trick."

"That also I could fathom."

"Then they carried me in. She was bound to have me in. What else
could she do? And into her sitting-room, which was the very room
which I suspected. It lay between that and her bedroom, and I was
determined to see which. They laid me on a couch, I motioned for
air, they were compelled to open the window, and you had your
chance."

"How did that help you?"

"It was all-important. When a woman thinks that her house is on
fire, her instinct is at once to rush to the thing which she
values most. It is a perfectly overpowering impulse, and I have
more than once taken advantage of it. In the case of the
Darlington substitution scandal it was of use to me, and also in
the Arnsworth Castle business. A married woman grabs at her baby;
an unmarried one reaches for her jewel-box. Now it was clear to
me that our lady of to-day had nothing in the house more precious
to her than what we are in quest of. She would rush to secure it.
The alarm of fire was admirably done. The smoke and shouting were
enough to shake nerves of steel. She responded beautifully. The
photograph is in a recess behind a sliding panel just above the
right bell-pull. She was there in an instant, and I caught a
glimpse of it as she half-drew it out. When I cried out that it
was a false alarm, she replaced it, glanced at the rocket, rushed
from the room, and I have not seen her since. I rose, and, making
my excuses, escaped from the house. I hesitated whether to
attempt to secure the photograph at once; but the coachman had
come in, and as he was watching me narrowly it seemed safer to
wait. A little over-precipitance may ruin all."

"And now?" I asked.

"Our quest is practically finished. I shall call with the King
to-morrow, and with you, if you care to come with us. We will be
shown into the sitting-room to wait for the lady, but it is
probable that when she comes she may find neither us nor the
photograph. It might be a satisfaction to his Majesty to regain
it with his own hands."

"And when will you call?"

"At eight in the morning. She will not be up, so that we shall
have a clear field. Besides, we must be prompt, for this marriage
may mean a complete change in her life and habits. I must wire to
the King without delay."

We had reached Baker Street and had stopped at the door. He was
searching his pockets for the key when someone passing said:

"Good-night, Mister Sherlock Holmes."

There were several people on the pavement at the time, but the
greeting appeared to come from a slim youth in an ulster who had
hurried by.

"I've heard that voice before," said Holmes, staring down the
dimly lit street. "Now, I wonder who the deuce that could have
been."


III.

I slept at Baker Street that night, and we were engaged upon our
toast and coffee in the morning when the King of Bohemia rushed
into the room.

"You have really got it!" he cried, grasping Sherlock Holmes by
either shoulder and looking eagerly into his face.

"Not yet."

"But you have hopes?"

"I have hopes."

"Then, come. I am all impatience to be gone."

"We must have a cab."

"No, my brougham is waiting."

"Then that will simplify matters." We descended and started off
once more for Briony Lodge.

"Irene Adler is married," remarked Holmes.

"Married! When?"

"Yesterday."

"But to whom?"

"To an English lawyer named Norton."

"But she could not love him."

"I am in hopes that she does."

"And why in hopes?"

"Because it would spare your Majesty all fear of future
annoyance. If the lady loves her husband, she does not love your
Majesty. If she does not love your Majesty, there is no reason
why she should interfere with your Majesty's plan."

"It is true. And yet--Well! I wish she had been of my own
station! What a queen she would have made!" He relapsed into a
moody silence, which was not broken until we drew up in
Serpentine Avenue.

The door of Briony Lodge was open, and an elderly woman stood
upon the steps. She watched us with a sardonic eye as we stepped
from the brougham.

"Mr. Sherlock Holmes, I believe?" said she.

"I am Mr. Holmes," answered my companion, looking at her with a
questioning and rather startled gaze.

"Indeed! My mistress told me that you were likely to call. She
left this morning with her husband by the 5:15 train from Charing
Cross for the Continent."

"What!" Sherlock Holmes staggered back, white with chagrin and
surprise. "Do you mean that she has left England?"

"Never to return."

"And the papers?" asked the King hoarsely. "All is lost."

"We shall see." He pushed past the servant and rushed into the
drawing-room, followed by the King and myself. The furniture was
scattered about in every direction, with dismantled shelves and
open drawers, as if the lady had hurriedly ransacked them before
her flight. Holmes rushed at the bell-pull, tore back a small
sliding shutter, and, plunging in his hand, pulled out a
photograph and a letter. The photograph was of Irene Adler
herself in evening dress, the letter was superscribed to
"Sherlock Holmes, Esq. To be left till called for." My friend
tore it open and we all three read it together. It was dated at
midnight of the preceding night and ran in this way:

"MY DEAR MR. SHERLOCK HOLMES,--You really did it very well. You
took me in completely. Until after the alarm of fire, I had not a
suspicion. But then, when I found how I had betrayed myself, I
began to think. I had been warned against you months ago. I had
been told that if the King employed an agent it would certainly
be you. And your address had been given me. Yet, with all this,
you made me reveal what you wanted to know. Even after I became
suspicious, I found it hard to think evil of such a dear, kind
old clergyman. But, you know, I have been trained as an actress
myself. Male costume is nothing new to me. I often take advantage
of the freedom which it gives. I sent John, the coachman, to
watch you, ran up stairs, got into my walking-clothes, as I call
them, and came down just as you departed.

"Well, I followed you to your door, and so made sure that I was
really an object of interest to the celebrated Mr. Sherlock
Holmes. Then I, rather imprudently, wished you good-night, and
started for the Temple to see my husband.

"We both thought the best resource was flight, when pursued by
so formidable an antagonist; so you will find the nest empty when
you call to-morrow. As to the photograph, your client may rest in
peace. I love and am loved by a better man than he. The King may
do what he will without hindrance from one whom he has cruelly
wronged. I keep it only to safeguard myself, and to preserve a
weapon which will always secure me from any steps which he might
take in the future. I leave a photograph which he might care to
possess; and I remain, dear Mr. Sherlock Holmes,

                                      "Very truly yours,
                                   "IRENE NORTON, née ADLER."

"What a woman--oh, what a woman!" cried the King of Bohemia, when
we had all three read this epistle. "Did I not tell you how quick
and resolute she was? Would she not have made an admirable queen?
Is it not a pity that she was not on my level?"

"From what I have seen of the lady she seems indeed to be on a
very different level to your Majesty," said Holmes coldly. "I am
sorry that I have not been able to bring your Majesty's business
to a more successful conclusion."

"On the contrary, my dear sir," cried the King; "nothing could be
more successful. I know that her word is inviolate. The
photograph is now as safe as if it were in the fire."

"I am glad to hear your Majesty say so."

"I am immensely indebted to you. Pray tell me in what way I can
reward you. This ring--" He slipped an emerald snake ring from
his finger and held it out upon the palm of his hand.

"Your Majesty has something which I should value even more
highly," said Holmes.

"You have but to name it."

"This photograph!"

The King stared at him in amazement.

"Irene's photograph!" he cried. "Certainly, if you wish it."

"I thank your Majesty. Then there is no more to be done in the
matter. I have the honour to wish you a very good-morning." He
bowed, and, turning away without observing the hand which the
King had stretched out to him, he set off in my company for his
chambers.

And that was how a great scandal threatened to affect the kingdom
of Bohemia, and how the best plans of Mr. Sherlock Holmes were
beaten by a woman's wit. He used to make merry over the
cleverness of women, but I have not heard him do it of late. And
when he speaks of Irene Adler, or when he refers to her
photograph, it is always under the honourable title of the woman.



ADVENTURE II. THE RED-HEADED LEAGUE

I had called upon my friend, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, one day in the
autumn of last year and found him in deep conversation with a
very stout, florid-faced, elderly gentleman with fiery red hair.
With an apology for my intrusion, I was about to withdraw when
Holmes pulled me abruptly into the room and closed the door
behind me.

"You could not possibly have come at a better time, my dear
Watson," he said cordially.

"I was afraid that you were engaged."

"So I am. Very much so."

"Then I can wait in the next room."

"Not at all. This gentleman, Mr. Wilson, has been my partner and
helper in many of my most successful cases, and I have no
doubt that he will be of the utmost use to me in yours also."

The stout gentleman half rose from his chair and gave a bob of
greeting, with a quick little questioning glance from his small
fat-encircled eyes.

"Try the settee," said Holmes, relapsing into his armchair and
putting his fingertips together, as was his custom when in
judicial moods. "I know, my dear Watson, that you share my love
of all that is bizarre and outside the conventions and humdrum
routine of everyday life. You have shown your relish for it by
the enthusiasm which has prompted you to chronicle, and, if you
will excuse my saying so, somewhat to embellish so many of my own
little adventures."

"Your cases have indeed been of the greatest interest to me," I
observed.

"You will remember that I remarked the other day, just before we
went into the very simple problem presented by Miss Mary
Sutherland, that for strange effects and extraordinary
combinations we must go to life itself, which is always far more
daring than any effort of the imagination."

"A proposition which I took the liberty of doubting."

"You did, Doctor, but none the less you must come round to my
view, for otherwise I shall keep on piling fact upon fact on you
until your reason breaks down under them and acknowledges me to
be right. Now, Mr. Jabez Wilson here has been good enough to call
upon me this morning, and to begin a narrative which promises to
be one of the most singular which I have listened to for some
time. You have heard me remark that the strangest and most unique
things are very often connected not with the larger but with the
smaller crimes, and occasionally, indeed, where there is room for
doubt whether any positive crime has been committed. As far as I
have heard it is impossible for me to say whether the present
case is an instance of crime or not, but the course of events is
certainly among the most singular that I have ever listened to.
Perhaps, Mr. Wilson, you would have the great kindness to
recommence your narrative. I ask you not merely because my friend
Dr. Watson has not heard the opening part but also because the
peculiar nature of the story makes me anxious to have every
possible detail from your lips. As a rule, when I have heard some
slight indication of the course of events, I am able to guide
myself by the thousands of other similar cases which occur to my
memory. In the present instance I am forced to admit that the
facts are, to the best of my belief, unique."

The portly client puffed out his chest with an appearance of some
little pride and pulled a dirty and wrinkled newspaper from the
inside pocket of his greatcoat. As he glanced down the
advertisement column, with his head thrust forward and the paper
flattened out upon his knee, I took a good look at the man and
endeavoured, after the fashion of my companion, to read the
indications which might be presented by his dress or appearance.

I did not gain very much, however, by my inspection. Our visitor
bore every mark of being an average commonplace British
tradesman, obese, pompous, and slow. He wore rather baggy grey
shepherd's check trousers, a not over-clean black frock-coat,
unbuttoned in the front, and a drab waistcoat with a heavy brassy
Albert chain, and a square pierced bit of metal dangling down as
an ornament. A frayed top-hat and a faded brown overcoat with a
wrinkled velvet collar lay upon a chair beside him. Altogether,
look as I would, there was nothing remarkable about the man save
his blazing red head, and the expression of extreme chagrin and
discontent upon his features.

Sherlock Holmes' quick eye took in my occupation, and he shook
his head with a smile as he noticed my questioning glances.
"Beyond the obvious facts that he has at some time done manual
labour, that he takes snuff, that he is a Freemason, that he has
been in China, and that he has done a considerable amount of
writing lately, I can deduce nothing else."

Mr. Jabez Wilson started up in his chair, with his forefinger
upon the paper, but his eyes upon my companion.

"How, in the name of good-fortune, did you know all that, Mr.
Holmes?" he asked. "How did you know, for example, that I did
manual labour. It's as true as gospel, for I began as a ship's
carpenter."

"Your hands, my dear sir. Your right hand is quite a size larger
than your left. You have worked with it, and the muscles are more
developed."

"Well, the snuff, then, and the Freemasonry?"

"I won't insult your intelligence by telling you how I read that,
especially as, rather against the strict rules of your order, you
use an arc-and-compass breastpin."

"Ah, of course, I forgot that. But the writing?"

"What else can be indicated by that right cuff so very shiny for
five inches, and the left one with the smooth patch near the
elbow where you rest it upon the desk?"

"Well, but China?"

"The fish that you have tattooed immediately above your right
wrist could only have been done in China. I have made a small
study of tattoo marks and have even contributed to the literature
of the subject. That trick of staining the fishes' scales of a
delicate pink is quite peculiar to China. When, in addition, I
see a Chinese coin hanging from your watch-chain, the matter
becomes even more simple."

Mr. Jabez Wilson laughed heavily. "Well, I never!" said he. "I
thought at first that you had done something clever, but I see
that there was nothing in it, after all."

"I begin to think, Watson," said Holmes, "that I make a mistake
in explaining. 'Omne ignotum pro magnifico,' you know, and my
poor little reputation, such as it is, will suffer shipwreck if I
am so candid. Can you not find the advertisement, Mr. Wilson?"

"Yes, I have got it now," he answered with his thick red finger
planted halfway down the column. "Here it is. This is what began
it all. You just read it for yourself, sir."

I took the paper from him and read as follows:

"TO THE RED-HEADED LEAGUE: On account of the bequest of the late
Ezekiah Hopkins, of Lebanon, Pennsylvania, U. S. A., there is now
another vacancy open which entitles a member of the League to a
salary of 4 pounds a week for purely nominal services. All
red-headed men who are sound in body and mind and above the age
of twenty-one years, are eligible. Apply in person on Monday, at
eleven o'clock, to Duncan Ross, at the offices of the League, 7
Pope's Court, Fleet Street."

"What on earth does this mean?" I ejaculated after I had twice
read over the extraordinary announcement.

Holmes chuckled and wriggled in his chair, as was his habit when
in high spirits. "It is a little off the beaten track, isn't it?"
said he. "And now, Mr. Wilson, off you go at scratch and tell us
all about yourself, your household, and the effect which this
advertisement had upon your fortunes. You will first make a note,
Doctor, of the paper and the date."

"It is The Morning Chronicle of April 27, 1890. Just two months
ago."

"Very good. Now, Mr. Wilson?"

"Well, it is just as I have been telling you, Mr. Sherlock
Holmes," said Jabez Wilson, mopping his forehead; "I have a small
pawnbroker's business at Coburg Square, near the City. It's not a
very large affair, and of late years it has not done more than
just give me a living. I used to be able to keep two assistants,
but now I only keep one; and I would have a job to pay him but
that he is willing to come for half wages so as to learn the
business."

"What is the name of this obliging youth?" asked Sherlock Holmes.

"His name is Vincent Spaulding, and he's not such a youth,
either. It's hard to say his age. I should not wish a smarter
assistant, Mr. Holmes; and I know very well that he could better
himself and earn twice what I am able to give him. But, after
all, if he is satisfied, why should I put ideas in his head?"

"Why, indeed? You seem most fortunate in having an employé who
comes under the full market price. It is not a common experience
among employers in this age. I don't know that your assistant is
not as remarkable as your advertisement."

"Oh, he has his faults, too," said Mr. Wilson. "Never was such a
fellow for photography. Snapping away with a camera when he ought
to be improving his mind, and then diving down into the cellar
like a rabbit into its hole to develop his pictures. That is his
main fault, but on the whole he's a good worker. There's no vice
in him."

"He is still with you, I presume?"

"Yes, sir. He and a girl of fourteen, who does a bit of simple
cooking and keeps the place clean--that's all I have in the
house, for I am a widower and never had any family. We live very
quietly, sir, the three of us; and we keep a roof over our heads
and pay our debts, if we do nothing more.

"The first thing that put us out was that advertisement.
Spaulding, he came down into the office just this day eight
weeks, with this very paper in his hand, and he says:

"'I wish to the Lord, Mr. Wilson, that I was a red-headed man.'

"'Why that?' I asks.

"'Why,' says he, 'here's another vacancy on the League of the
Red-headed Men. It's worth quite a little fortune to any man who
gets it, and I understand that there are more vacancies than
there are men, so that the trustees are at their wits' end what
to do with the money. If my hair would only change colour, here's
a nice little crib all ready for me to step into.'

"'Why, what is it, then?' I asked. You see, Mr. Holmes, I am a
very stay-at-home man, and as my business came to me instead of
my having to go to it, I was often weeks on end without putting
my foot over the door-mat. In that way I didn't know much of what
was going on outside, and I was always glad of a bit of news.

"'Have you never heard of the League of the Red-headed Men?' he
asked with his eyes open.

"'Never.'

"'Why, I wonder at that, for you are eligible yourself for one
of the vacancies.'

"'And what are they worth?' I asked.

"'Oh, merely a couple of hundred a year, but the work is slight,
and it need not interfere very much with one's other
occupations.'

"Well, you can easily think that that made me prick up my ears,
for the business has not been over-good for some years, and an
extra couple of hundred would have been very handy.

"'Tell me all about it,' said I.

"'Well,' said he, showing me the advertisement, 'you can see for
yourself that the League has a vacancy, and there is the address
where you should apply for particulars. As far as I can make out,
the League was founded by an American millionaire, Ezekiah
Hopkins, who was very peculiar in his ways. He was himself
red-headed, and he had a great sympathy for all red-headed men;
so when he died it was found that he had left his enormous
fortune in the hands of trustees, with instructions to apply the
interest to the providing of easy berths to men whose hair is of
that colour. From all I hear it is splendid pay and very little to
do.'

"'But,' said I, 'there would be millions of red-headed men who
would apply.'

"'Not so many as you might think,' he answered. 'You see it is
really confined to Londoners, and to grown men. This American had
started from London when he was young, and he wanted to do the
old town a good turn. Then, again, I have heard it is no use your
applying if your hair is light red, or dark red, or anything but
real bright, blazing, fiery red. Now, if you cared to apply, Mr.
Wilson, you would just walk in; but perhaps it would hardly be
worth your while to put yourself out of the way for the sake of a
few hundred pounds.'

"Now, it is a fact, gentlemen, as you may see for yourselves,
that my hair is of a very full and rich tint, so that it seemed
to me that if there was to be any competition in the matter I
stood as good a chance as any man that I had ever met. Vincent
Spaulding seemed to know so much about it that I thought he might
prove useful, so I just ordered him to put up the shutters for
the day and to come right away with me. He was very willing to
have a holiday, so we shut the business up and started off for
the address that was given us in the advertisement.

"I never hope to see such a sight as that again, Mr. Holmes. From
north, south, east, and west every man who had a shade of red in
his hair had tramped into the city to answer the advertisement.
Fleet Street was choked with red-headed folk, and Pope's Court
looked like a coster's orange barrow. I should not have thought
there were so many in the whole country as were brought together
by that single advertisement. Every shade of colour they
were--straw, lemon, orange, brick, Irish-setter, liver, clay;
but, as Spaulding said, there were not many who had the real
vivid flame-coloured tint. When I saw how many were waiting, I
would have given it up in despair; but Spaulding would not hear
of it. How he did it I could not imagine, but he pushed and
pulled and butted until he got me through the crowd, and right up
to the steps which led to the office. There was a double stream
upon the stair, some going up in hope, and some coming back
dejected; but we wedged in as well as we could and soon found
ourselves in the office."

"Your experience has been a most entertaining one," remarked
Holmes as his client paused and refreshed his memory with a huge
pinch of snuff. "Pray continue your very interesting statement."

"There was nothing in the office but a couple of wooden chairs
and a deal table, behind which sat a small man with a head that
was even redder than mine. He said a few words to each candidate
as he came up, and then he always managed to find some fault in
them which would disqualify them. Getting a vacancy did not seem
to be such a very easy matter, after all. However, when our turn
came the little man was much more favourable to me than to any of
the others, and he closed the door as we entered, so that he
might have a private word with us.

"'This is Mr. Jabez Wilson,' said my assistant, 'and he is
willing to fill a vacancy in the League.'

"'And he is admirably suited for it,' the other answered. 'He has
every requirement. I cannot recall when I have seen anything so
fine.' He took a step backward, cocked his head on one side, and
gazed at my hair until I felt quite bashful. Then suddenly he
plunged forward, wrung my hand, and congratulated me warmly on my
success.

"'It would be injustice to hesitate,' said he. 'You will,
however, I am sure, excuse me for taking an obvious precaution.'
With that he seized my hair in both his hands, and tugged until I
yelled with the pain. 'There is water in your eyes,' said he as
he released me. 'I perceive that all is as it should be. But we
have to be careful, for we have twice been deceived by wigs and
once by paint. I could tell you tales of cobbler's wax which
would disgust you with human nature.' He stepped over to the
window and shouted through it at the top of his voice that the
vacancy was filled. A groan of disappointment came up from below,
and the folk all trooped away in different directions until there
was not a red-head to be seen except my own and that of the
manager.

"'My name,' said he, 'is Mr. Duncan Ross, and I am myself one of
the pensioners upon the fund left by our noble benefactor. Are
you a married man, Mr. Wilson? Have you a family?'

"I answered that I had not.

"His face fell immediately.

"'Dear me!' he said gravely, 'that is very serious indeed! I am
sorry to hear you say that. The fund was, of course, for the
propagation and spread of the red-heads as well as for their
maintenance. It is exceedingly unfortunate that you should be a
bachelor.'

"My face lengthened at this, Mr. Holmes, for I thought that I was
not to have the vacancy after all; but after thinking it over for
a few minutes he said that it would be all right.

"'In the case of another,' said he, 'the objection might be
fatal, but we must stretch a point in favour of a man with such a
head of hair as yours. When shall you be able to enter upon your
new duties?'

"'Well, it is a little awkward, for I have a business already,'
said I.

"'Oh, never mind about that, Mr. Wilson!' said Vincent Spaulding.
'I should be able to look after that for you.'

"'What would be the hours?' I asked.

"'Ten to two.'

"Now a pawnbroker's business is mostly done of an evening, Mr.
Holmes, especially Thursday and Friday evening, which is just
before pay-day; so it would suit me very well to earn a little in
the mornings. Besides, I knew that my assistant was a good man,
and that he would see to anything that turned up.

"'That would suit me very well,' said I. 'And the pay?'

"'Is 4 pounds a week.'

"'And the work?'

"'Is purely nominal.'

"'What do you call purely nominal?'

"'Well, you have to be in the office, or at least in the
building, the whole time. If you leave, you forfeit your whole
position forever. The will is very clear upon that point. You
don't comply with the conditions if you budge from the office
during that time.'

"'It's only four hours a day, and I should not think of leaving,'
said I.

"'No excuse will avail,' said Mr. Duncan Ross; 'neither sickness
nor business nor anything else. There you must stay, or you lose
your billet.'

"'And the work?'

"'Is to copy out the "Encyclopaedia Britannica." There is the first
volume of it in that press. You must find your own ink, pens, and
blotting-paper, but we provide this table and chair. Will you be
ready to-morrow?'

"'Certainly,' I answered.

"'Then, good-bye, Mr. Jabez Wilson, and let me congratulate you
once more on the important position which you have been fortunate
enough to gain.' He bowed me out of the room and I went home with
my assistant, hardly knowing what to say or do, I was so pleased
at my own good fortune.

"Well, I thought over the matter all day, and by evening I was in
low spirits again; for I had quite persuaded myself that the
whole affair must be some great hoax or fraud, though what its
object might be I could not imagine. It seemed altogether past
belief that anyone could make such a will, or that they would pay
such a sum for doing anything so simple as copying out the
'Encyclopaedia Britannica.' Vincent Spaulding did what he could to
cheer me up, but by bedtime I had reasoned myself out of the
whole thing. However, in the morning I determined to have a look
at it anyhow, so I bought a penny bottle of ink, and with a
quill-pen, and seven sheets of foolscap paper, I started off for
Pope's Court.

"Well, to my surprise and delight, everything was as right as
possible. The table was set out ready for me, and Mr. Duncan Ross
was there to see that I got fairly to work. He started me off
upon the letter A, and then he left me; but he would drop in from
time to time to see that all was right with me. At two o'clock he
bade me good-day, complimented me upon the amount that I had
written, and locked the door of the office after me.

"This went on day after day, Mr. Holmes, and on Saturday the
manager came in and planked down four golden sovereigns for my
week's work. It was the same next week, and the same the week
after. Every morning I was there at ten, and every afternoon I
left at two. By degrees Mr. Duncan Ross took to coming in only
once of a morning, and then, after a time, he did not come in at
all. Still, of course, I never dared to leave the room for an
instant, for I was not sure when he might come, and the billet
was such a good one, and suited me so well, that I would not risk
the loss of it.

"Eight weeks passed away like this, and I had written about
Abbots and Archery and Armour and Architecture and Attica, and
hoped with diligence that I might get on to the B's before very
long. It cost me something in foolscap, and I had pretty nearly
filled a shelf with my writings. And then suddenly the whole
business came to an end."

"To an end?"

"Yes, sir. And no later than this morning. I went to my work as
usual at ten o'clock, but the door was shut and locked, with a
little square of cardboard hammered on to the middle of the
panel with a tack. Here it is, and you can read for yourself."

He held up a piece of white cardboard about the size of a sheet
of note-paper. It read in this fashion:

                  THE RED-HEADED LEAGUE

                           IS

                        DISSOLVED.

                     October 9, 1890.

Sherlock Holmes and I surveyed this curt announcement and the
rueful face behind it, until the comical side of the affair so
completely overtopped every other consideration that we both
burst out into a roar of laughter.

"I cannot see that there is anything very funny," cried our
client, flushing up to the roots of his flaming head. "If you can
do nothing better than laugh at me, I can go elsewhere."

"No, no," cried Holmes, shoving him back into the chair from
which he had half risen. "I really wouldn't miss your case for
the world. It is most refreshingly unusual. But there is, if you
will excuse my saying so, something just a little funny about it.
Pray what steps did you take when you found the card upon the
door?"

"I was staggered, sir. I did not know what to do. Then I called
at the offices round, but none of them seemed to know anything
about it. Finally, I went to the landlord, who is an accountant
living on the ground-floor, and I asked him if he could tell me
what had become of the Red-headed League. He said that he had
never heard of any such body. Then I asked him who Mr. Duncan
Ross was. He answered that the name was new to him.

"'Well,' said I, 'the gentleman at No. 4.'

"'What, the red-headed man?'

"'Yes.'

"'Oh,' said he, 'his name was William Morris. He was a solicitor
and was using my room as a temporary convenience until his new
premises were ready. He moved out yesterday.'

"'Where could I find him?'

"'Oh, at his new offices. He did tell me the address. Yes, 17
King Edward Street, near St. Paul's.'

"I started off, Mr. Holmes, but when I got to that address it was
a manufactory of artificial knee-caps, and no one in it had ever
heard of either Mr. William Morris or Mr. Duncan Ross."

"And what did you do then?" asked Holmes.

"I went home to Saxe-Coburg Square, and I took the advice of my
assistant. But he could not help me in any way. He could only say
that if I waited I should hear by post. But that was not quite
good enough, Mr. Holmes. I did not wish to lose such a place
without a struggle, so, as I had heard that you were good enough
to give advice to poor folk who were in need of it, I came right
away to you."

"And you did very wisely," said Holmes. "Your case is an
exceedingly remarkable one, and I shall be happy to look into it.
From what you have told me I think that it is possible that
graver issues hang from it than might at first sight appear."

"Grave enough!" said Mr. Jabez Wilson. "Why, I have lost four
pound a week."

"As far as you are personally concerned," remarked Holmes, "I do
not see that you have any grievance against this extraordinary
league. On the contrary, you are, as I understand, richer by some
30 pounds, to say nothing of the minute knowledge which you have
gained on every subject which comes under the letter A. You have
lost nothing by them."

"No, sir. But I want to find out about them, and who they are,
and what their object was in playing this prank--if it was a
prank--upon me. It was a pretty expensive joke for them, for it
cost them two and thirty pounds."

"We shall endeavour to clear up these points for you. And, first,
one or two questions, Mr. Wilson. This assistant of yours who
first called your attention to the advertisement--how long had he
been with you?"

"About a month then."

"How did he come?"

"In answer to an advertisement."

"Was he the only applicant?"

"No, I had a dozen."

"Why did you pick him?"

"Because he was handy and would come cheap."

"At half-wages, in fact."

"Yes."

"What is he like, this Vincent Spaulding?"

"Small, stout-built, very quick in his ways, no hair on his face,
though he's not short of thirty. Has a white splash of acid upon
his forehead."

Holmes sat up in his chair in considerable excitement. "I thought
as much," said he. "Have you ever observed that his ears are
pierced for earrings?"

"Yes, sir. He told me that a gipsy had done it for him when he
was a lad."

"Hum!" said Holmes, sinking back in deep thought. "He is still
with you?"

"Oh, yes, sir; I have only just left him."

"And has your business been attended to in your absence?"

"Nothing to complain of, sir. There's never very much to do of a
morning."

"That will do, Mr. Wilson. I shall be happy to give you an
opinion upon the subject in the course of a day or two. To-day is
Saturday, and I hope that by Monday we may come to a conclusion."

"Well, Watson," said Holmes when our visitor had left us, "what
do you make of it all?"

"I make nothing of it," I answered frankly. "It is a most
mysterious business."

"As a rule," said Holmes, "the more bizarre a thing is the less
mysterious it proves to be. It is your commonplace, featureless
crimes which are really puzzling, just as a commonplace face is
the most difficult to identify. But I must be prompt over this
matter."

"What are you going to do, then?" I asked.

"To smoke," he answered. "It is quite a three pipe problem, and I
beg that you won't speak to me for fifty minutes." He curled
himself up in his chair, with his thin knees drawn up to his
hawk-like nose, and there he sat with his eyes closed and his
black clay pipe thrusting out like the bill of some strange bird.
I had come to the conclusion that he had dropped asleep, and
indeed was nodding myself, when he suddenly sprang out of his
chair with the gesture of a man who has made up his mind and put
his pipe down upon the mantelpiece.

"Sarasate plays at the St. James's Hall this afternoon," he
remarked. "What do you think, Watson? Could your patients spare
you for a few hours?"

"I have nothing to do to-day. My practice is never very
absorbing."

"Then put on your hat and come. I am going through the City
first, and we can have some lunch on the way. I observe that
there is a good deal of German music on the programme, which is
rather more to my taste than Italian or French. It is
introspective, and I want to introspect. Come along!"

We travelled by the Underground as far as Aldersgate; and a short
walk took us to Saxe-Coburg Square, the scene of the singular
story which we had listened to in the morning. It was a poky,
little, shabby-genteel place, where four lines of dingy
two-storied brick houses looked out into a small railed-in
enclosure, where a lawn of weedy grass and a few clumps of faded
laurel-bushes made a hard fight against a smoke-laden and
uncongenial atmosphere. Three gilt balls and a brown board with
"JABEZ WILSON" in white letters, upon a corner house, announced
the place where our red-headed client carried on his business.
Sherlock Holmes stopped in front of it with his head on one side
and looked it all over, with his eyes shining brightly between
puckered lids. Then he walked slowly up the street, and then down
again to the corner, still looking keenly at the houses. Finally
he returned to the pawnbroker's, and, having thumped vigorously
upon the pavement with his stick two or three times, he went up
to the door and knocked. It was instantly opened by a
bright-looking, clean-shaven young fellow, who asked him to step
in.

"Thank you," said Holmes, "I only wished to ask you how you would
go from here to the Strand."

"Third right, fourth left," answered the assistant promptly,
closing the door.

"Smart fellow, that," observed Holmes as we walked away. "He is,
in my judgment, the fourth smartest man in London, and for daring
I am not sure that he has not a claim to be third. I have known
something of him before."

"Evidently," said I, "Mr. Wilson's assistant counts for a good
deal in this mystery of the Red-headed League. I am sure that you
inquired your way merely in order that you might see him."

"Not him."

"What then?"

"The knees of his trousers."

"And what did you see?"

"What I expected to see."

"Why did you beat the pavement?"

"My dear doctor, this is a time for observation, not for talk. We
are spies in an enemy's country. We know something of Saxe-Coburg
Square. Let us now explore the parts which lie behind it."

The road in which we found ourselves as we turned round the
corner from the retired Saxe-Coburg Square presented as great a
contrast to it as the front of a picture does to the back. It was
one of the main arteries which conveyed the traffic of the City
to the north and west. The roadway was blocked with the immense
stream of commerce flowing in a double tide inward and outward,
while the footpaths were black with the hurrying swarm of
pedestrians. It was difficult to realise as we looked at the line
of fine shops and stately business premises that they really
abutted on the other side upon the faded and stagnant square
which we had just quitted.

"Let me see," said Holmes, standing at the corner and glancing
along the line, "I should like just to remember the order of the
houses here. It is a hobby of mine to have an exact knowledge of
London. There is Mortimer's, the tobacconist, the little
newspaper shop, the Coburg branch of the City and Suburban Bank,
the Vegetarian Restaurant, and McFarlane's carriage-building
depot. That carries us right on to the other block. And now,
Doctor, we've done our work, so it's time we had some play. A
sandwich and a cup of coffee, and then off to violin-land, where
all is sweetness and delicacy and harmony, and there are no
red-headed clients to vex us with their conundrums."

My friend was an enthusiastic musician, being himself not only a
very capable performer but a composer of no ordinary merit. All
the afternoon he sat in the stalls wrapped in the most perfect
happiness, gently waving his long, thin fingers in time to the
music, while his gently smiling face and his languid, dreamy eyes
were as unlike those of Holmes the sleuth-hound, Holmes the
relentless, keen-witted, ready-handed criminal agent, as it was
possible to conceive. In his singular character the dual nature
alternately asserted itself, and his extreme exactness and
astuteness represented, as I have often thought, the reaction
against the poetic and contemplative mood which occasionally
predominated in him. The swing of his nature took him from
extreme languor to devouring energy; and, as I knew well, he was
never so truly formidable as when, for days on end, he had been
lounging in his armchair amid his improvisations and his
black-letter editions. Then it was that the lust of the chase
would suddenly come upon him, and that his brilliant reasoning
power would rise to the level of intuition, until those who were
unacquainted with his methods would look askance at him as on a
man whose knowledge was not that of other mortals. When I saw him
that afternoon so enwrapped in the music at St. James's Hall I
felt that an evil time might be coming upon those whom he had set
himself to hunt down.

"You want to go home, no doubt, Doctor," he remarked as we
emerged.

"Yes, it would be as well."

"And I have some business to do which will take some hours. This
business at Coburg Square is serious."

"Why serious?"

"A considerable crime is in contemplation. I have every reason to
believe that we shall be in time to stop it. But to-day being
Saturday rather complicates matters. I shall want your help
to-night."

"At what time?"

"Ten will be early enough."

"I shall be at Baker Street at ten."

"Very well. And, I say, Doctor, there may be some little danger,
so kindly put your army revolver in your pocket." He waved his
hand, turned on his heel, and disappeared in an instant among the
crowd.

I trust that I am not more dense than my neighbours, but I was
always oppressed with a sense of my own stupidity in my dealings
with Sherlock Holmes. Here I had heard what he had heard, I had
seen what he had seen, and yet from his words it was evident that
he saw clearly not only what had happened but what was about to
happen, while to me the whole business was still confused and
grotesque. As I drove home to my house in Kensington I thought
over it all, from the extraordinary story of the red-headed
copier of the "Encyclopaedia" down to the visit to Saxe-Coburg
Square, and the ominous words with which he had parted from me.
What was this nocturnal expedition, and why should I go armed?
Where were we going, and what were we to do? I had the hint from
Holmes that this smooth-faced pawnbroker's assistant was a
formidable man--a man who might play a deep game. I tried to
puzzle it out, but gave it up in despair and set the matter aside
until night should bring an explanation.

It was a quarter-past nine when I started from home and made my
way across the Park, and so through Oxford Street to Baker
Street. Two hansoms were standing at the door, and as I entered
the passage I heard the sound of voices from above. On entering
his room I found Holmes in animated conversation with two men,
one of whom I recognised as Peter Jones, the official police
agent, while the other was a long, thin, sad-faced man, with a
very shiny hat and oppressively respectable frock-coat.

"Ha! Our party is complete," said Holmes, buttoning up his
pea-jacket and taking his heavy hunting crop from the rack.
"Watson, I think you know Mr. Jones, of Scotland Yard? Let me
introduce you to Mr. Merryweather, who is to be our companion in
to-night's adventure."

"We're hunting in couples again, Doctor, you see," said Jones in
his consequential way. "Our friend here is a wonderful man for
starting a chase. All he wants is an old dog to help him to do
the running down."

"I hope a wild goose may not prove to be the end of our chase,"
observed Mr. Merryweather gloomily.

"You may place considerable confidence in Mr. Holmes, sir," said
the police agent loftily. "He has his own little methods, which
are, if he won't mind my saying so, just a little too theoretical
and fantastic, but he has the makings of a detective in him. It
is not too much to say that once or twice, as in that business of
the Sholto murder and the Agra treasure, he has been more nearly
correct than the official force."

"Oh, if you say so, Mr. Jones, it is all right," said the
stranger with deference. "Still, I confess that I miss my rubber.
It is the first Saturday night for seven-and-twenty years that I
have not had my rubber."

"I think you will find," said Sherlock Holmes, "that you will
play for a higher stake to-night than you have ever done yet, and
that the play will be more exciting. For you, Mr. Merryweather,
the stake will be some 30,000 pounds; and for you, Jones, it will
be the man upon whom you wish to lay your hands."

"John Clay, the murderer, thief, smasher, and forger. He's a
young man, Mr. Merryweather, but he is at the head of his
profession, and I would rather have my bracelets on him than on
any criminal in London. He's a remarkable man, is young John
Clay. His grandfather was a royal duke, and he himself has been
to Eton and Oxford. His brain is as cunning as his fingers, and
though we meet signs of him at every turn, we never know where to
find the man himself. He'll crack a crib in Scotland one week,
and be raising money to build an orphanage in Cornwall the next.
I've been on his track for years and have never set eyes on him
yet."

"I hope that I may have the pleasure of introducing you to-night.
I've had one or two little turns also with Mr. John Clay, and I
agree with you that he is at the head of his profession. It is
past ten, however, and quite time that we started. If you two
will take the first hansom, Watson and I will follow in the
second."

Sherlock Holmes was not very communicative during the long drive
and lay back in the cab humming the tunes which he had heard in
the afternoon. We rattled through an endless labyrinth of gas-lit
streets until we emerged into Farrington Street.

"We are close there now," my friend remarked. "This fellow
Merryweather is a bank director, and personally interested in the
matter. I thought it as well to have Jones with us also. He is
not a bad fellow, though an absolute imbecile in his profession.
He has one positive virtue. He is as brave as a bulldog and as
tenacious as a lobster if he gets his claws upon anyone. Here we
are, and they are waiting for us."

We had reached the same crowded thoroughfare in which we had
found ourselves in the morning. Our cabs were dismissed, and,
following the guidance of Mr. Merryweather, we passed down a
narrow passage and through a side door, which he opened for us.
Within there was a small corridor, which ended in a very massive
iron gate. This also was opened, and led down a flight of winding
stone steps, which terminated at another formidable gate. Mr.
Merryweather stopped to light a lantern, and then conducted us
down a dark, earth-smelling passage, and so, after opening a
third door, into a huge vault or cellar, which was piled all
round with crates and massive boxes.

"You are not very vulnerable from above," Holmes remarked as he
held up the lantern and gazed about him.

"Nor from below," said Mr. Merryweather, striking his stick upon
the flags which lined the floor. "Why, dear me, it sounds quite
hollow!" he remarked, looking up in surprise.

"I must really ask you to be a little more quiet!" said Holmes
severely. "You have already imperilled the whole success of our
expedition. Might I beg that you would have the goodness to sit
down upon one of those boxes, and not to interfere?"

The solemn Mr. Merryweather perched himself upon a crate, with a
very injured expression upon his face, while Holmes fell upon his
knees upon the floor and, with the lantern and a magnifying lens,
began to examine minutely the cracks between the stones. A few
seconds sufficed to satisfy him, for he sprang to his feet again
and put his glass in his pocket.

"We have at least an hour before us," he remarked, "for they can
hardly take any steps until the good pawnbroker is safely in bed.
Then they will not lose a minute, for the sooner they do their
work the longer time they will have for their escape. We are at
present, Doctor--as no doubt you have divined--in the cellar of
the City branch of one of the principal London banks. Mr.
Merryweather is the chairman of directors, and he will explain to
you that there are reasons why the more daring criminals of
London should take a considerable interest in this cellar at
present."

"It is our French gold," whispered the director. "We have had
several warnings that an attempt might be made upon it."

"Your French gold?"

"Yes. We had occasion some months ago to strengthen our resources
and borrowed for that purpose 30,000 napoleons from the Bank of
France. It has become known that we have never had occasion to
unpack the money, and that it is still lying in our cellar. The
crate upon which I sit contains 2,000 napoleons packed between
layers of lead foil. Our reserve of bullion is much larger at
present than is usually kept in a single branch office, and the
directors have had misgivings upon the subject."

"Which were very well justified," observed Holmes. "And now it is
time that we arranged our little plans. I expect that within an
hour matters will come to a head. In the meantime Mr.
Merryweather, we must put the screen over that dark lantern."

"And sit in the dark?"

"I am afraid so. I had brought a pack of cards in my pocket, and
I thought that, as we were a partie carrée, you might have your
rubber after all. But I see that the enemy's preparations have
gone so far that we cannot risk the presence of a light. And,
first of all, we must choose our positions. These are daring men,
and though we shall take them at a disadvantage, they may do us
some harm unless we are careful. I shall stand behind this crate,
and do you conceal yourselves behind those. Then, when I flash a
light upon them, close in swiftly. If they fire, Watson, have no
compunction about shooting them down."

I placed my revolver, cocked, upon the top of the wooden case
behind which I crouched. Holmes shot the slide across the front
of his lantern and left us in pitch darkness--such an absolute
darkness as I have never before experienced. The smell of hot
metal remained to assure us that the light was still there, ready
to flash out at a moment's notice. To me, with my nerves worked
up to a pitch of expectancy, there was something depressing and
subduing in the sudden gloom, and in the cold dank air of the
vault.

"They have but one retreat," whispered Holmes. "That is back
through the house into Saxe-Coburg Square. I hope that you have
done what I asked you, Jones?"

"I have an inspector and two officers waiting at the front door."

"Then we have stopped all the holes. And now we must be silent
and wait."

What a time it seemed! From comparing notes afterwards it was but
an hour and a quarter, yet it appeared to me that the night must
have almost gone and the dawn be breaking above us. My limbs
were weary and stiff, for I feared to change my position; yet my
nerves were worked up to the highest pitch of tension, and my
hearing was so acute that I could not only hear the gentle
breathing of my companions, but I could distinguish the deeper,
heavier in-breath of the bulky Jones from the thin, sighing note
of the bank director. From my position I could look over the case
in the direction of the floor. Suddenly my eyes caught the glint
of a light.

At first it was but a lurid spark upon the stone pavement. Then
it lengthened out until it became a yellow line, and then,
without any warning or sound, a gash seemed to open and a hand
appeared, a white, almost womanly hand, which felt about in the
centre of the little area of light. For a minute or more the
hand, with its writhing fingers, protruded out of the floor. Then
it was withdrawn as suddenly as it appeared, and all was dark
again save the single lurid spark which marked a chink between
the stones.

Its disappearance, however, was but momentary. With a rending,
tearing sound, one of the broad, white stones turned over upon
its side and left a square, gaping hole, through which streamed
the light of a lantern. Over the edge there peeped a clean-cut,
boyish face, which looked keenly about it, and then, with a hand
on either side of the aperture, drew itself shoulder-high and
waist-high, until one knee rested upon the edge. In another
instant he stood at the side of the hole and was hauling after
him a companion, lithe and small like himself, with a pale face
and a shock of very red hair.

"It's all clear," he whispered. "Have you the chisel and the
bags? Great Scott! Jump, Archie, jump, and I'll swing for it!"

Sherlock Holmes had sprung out and seized the intruder by the
collar. The other dived down the hole, and I heard the sound of
rending cloth as Jones clutched at his skirts. The light flashed
upon the barrel of a revolver, but Holmes' hunting crop came
down on the man's wrist, and the pistol clinked upon the stone
floor.

"It's no use, John Clay," said Holmes blandly. "You have no
chance at all."

"So I see," the other answered with the utmost coolness. "I fancy
that my pal is all right, though I see you have got his
coat-tails."

"There are three men waiting for him at the door," said Holmes.

"Oh, indeed! You seem to have done the thing very completely. I
must compliment you."

"And I you," Holmes answered. "Your red-headed idea was very new
and effective."

"You'll see your pal again presently," said Jones. "He's quicker
at climbing down holes than I am. Just hold out while I fix the
derbies."

"I beg that you will not touch me with your filthy hands,"
remarked our prisoner as the handcuffs clattered upon his wrists.
"You may not be aware that I have royal blood in my veins. Have
the goodness, also, when you address me always to say 'sir' and
'please.'"

"All right," said Jones with a stare and a snigger. "Well, would
you please, sir, march upstairs, where we can get a cab to carry
your Highness to the police-station?"

"That is better," said John Clay serenely. He made a sweeping bow
to the three of us and walked quietly off in the custody of the
detective.

"Really, Mr. Holmes," said Mr. Merryweather as we followed them
from the cellar, "I do not know how the bank can thank you or
repay you. There is no doubt that you have detected and defeated
in the most complete manner one of the most determined attempts
at bank robbery that have ever come within my experience."

"I have had one or two little scores of my own to settle with Mr.
John Clay," said Holmes. "I have been at some small expense over
this matter, which I shall expect the bank to refund, but beyond
that I am amply repaid by having had an experience which is in
many ways unique, and by hearing the very remarkable narrative of
the Red-headed League."


"You see, Watson," he explained in the early hours of the morning
as we sat over a glass of whisky and soda in Baker Street, "it
was perfectly obvious from the first that the only possible
object of this rather fantastic business of the advertisement of
the League, and the copying of the 'Encyclopaedia,' must be to get
this not over-bright pawnbroker out of the way for a number of
hours every day. It was a curious way of managing it, but,
really, it would be difficult to suggest a better. The method was
no doubt suggested to Clay's ingenious mind by the colour of his
accomplice's hair. The 4 pounds a week was a lure which must draw
him, and what was it to them, who were playing for thousands?
They put in the advertisement, one rogue has the temporary
office, the other rogue incites the man to apply for it, and
together they manage to secure his absence every morning in the
week. From the time that I heard of the assistant having come for
half wages, it was obvious to me that he had some strong motive
for securing the situation."

"But how could you guess what the motive was?"

"Had there been women in the house, I should have suspected a
mere vulgar intrigue. That, however, was out of the question. The
man's business was a small one, and there was nothing in his
house which could account for such elaborate preparations, and
such an expenditure as they were at. It must, then, be something
out of the house. What could it be? I thought of the assistant's
fondness for photography, and his trick of vanishing into the
cellar. The cellar! There was the end of this tangled clue. Then
I made inquiries as to this mysterious assistant and found that I
had to deal with one of the coolest and most daring criminals in
London. He was doing something in the cellar--something which
took many hours a day for months on end. What could it be, once
more? I could think of nothing save that he was running a tunnel
to some other building.

"So far I had got when we went to visit the scene of action. I
surprised you by beating upon the pavement with my stick. I was
ascertaining whether the cellar stretched out in front or behind.
It was not in front. Then I rang the bell, and, as I hoped, the
assistant answered it. We have had some skirmishes, but we had
never set eyes upon each other before. I hardly looked at his
face. His knees were what I wished to see. You must yourself have
remarked how worn, wrinkled, and stained they were. They spoke of
those hours of burrowing. The only remaining point was what they
were burrowing for. I walked round the corner, saw the City and
Suburban Bank abutted on our friend's premises, and felt that I
had solved my problem. When you drove home after the concert I
called upon Scotland Yard and upon the chairman of the bank
directors, with the result that you have seen."

"And how could you tell that they would make their attempt
to-night?" I asked.

"Well, when they closed their League offices that was a sign that
they cared no longer about Mr. Jabez Wilson's presence--in other
words, that they had completed their tunnel. But it was essential
that they should use it soon, as it might be discovered, or the
bullion might be removed. Saturday would suit them better than
any other day, as it would give them two days for their escape.
For all these reasons I expected them to come to-night."

"You reasoned it out beautifully," I exclaimed in unfeigned
admiration. "It is so long a chain, and yet every link rings
true."

"It saved me from ennui," he answered, yawning. "Alas! I already
feel it closing in upon me. My life is spent in one long effort
to escape from the commonplaces of existence. These little
problems help me to do so."

"And you are a benefactor of the race," said I.

He shrugged his shoulders. "Well, perhaps, after all, it is of
some little use," he remarked. "'L'homme c'est rien--l'oeuvre
c'est tout,' as Gustave Flaubert wrote to George Sand."



ADVENTURE III. A CASE OF IDENTITY

"My dear fellow," said Sherlock Holmes as we sat on either side
of the fire in his lodgings at Baker Street, "life is infinitely
stranger than anything which the mind of man could invent. We
would not dare to conceive the things which are really mere
commonplaces of existence. If we could fly out of that window
hand in hand, hover over this great city, gently remove the
roofs, and peep in at the queer things which are going on, the
strange coincidences, the plannings, the cross-purposes, the
wonderful chains of events, working through generations, and
leading to the most outré results, it would make all fiction with
its conventionalities and foreseen conclusions most stale and
unprofitable."

"And yet I am not convinced of it," I answered. "The cases which
come to light in the papers are, as a rule, bald enough, and
vulgar enough. We have in our police reports realism pushed to
its extreme limits, and yet the result is, it must be confessed,
neither fascinating nor artistic."

"A certain selection and discretion must be used in producing a
realistic effect," remarked Holmes. "This is wanting in the
police report, where more stress is laid, perhaps, upon the
platitudes of the magistrate than upon the details, which to an
observer contain the vital essence of the whole matter. Depend
upon it, there is nothing so unnatural as the commonplace."

I smiled and shook my head. "I can quite understand your thinking
so," I said. "Of course, in your position of unofficial adviser
and helper to everybody who is absolutely puzzled, throughout
three continents, you are brought in contact with all that is
strange and bizarre. But here"--I picked up the morning paper
from the ground--"let us put it to a practical test. Here is the
first heading upon which I come. 'A husband's cruelty to his
wife.' There is half a column of print, but I know without
reading it that it is all perfectly familiar to me. There is, of
course, the other woman, the drink, the push, the blow, the
bruise, the sympathetic sister or landlady. The crudest of
writers could invent nothing more crude."

"Indeed, your example is an unfortunate one for your argument,"
said Holmes, taking the paper and glancing his eye down it. "This
is the Dundas separation case, and, as it happens, I was engaged
in clearing up some small points in connection with it. The
husband was a teetotaler, there was no other woman, and the
conduct complained of was that he had drifted into the habit of
winding up every meal by taking out his false teeth and hurling
them at his wife, which, you will allow, is not an action likely
to occur to the imagination of the average story-teller. Take a
pinch of snuff, Doctor, and acknowledge that I have scored over
you in your example."

He held out his snuffbox of old gold, with a great amethyst in
the centre of the lid. Its splendour was in such contrast to his
homely ways and simple life that I could not help commenting upon
it.

"Ah," said he, "I forgot that I had not seen you for some weeks.
It is a little souvenir from the King of Bohemia in return for my
assistance in the case of the Irene Adler papers."

"And the ring?" I asked, glancing at a remarkable brilliant which
sparkled upon his finger.

"It was from the reigning family of Holland, though the matter in
which I served them was of such delicacy that I cannot confide it
even to you, who have been good enough to chronicle one or two of
my little problems."

"And have you any on hand just now?" I asked with interest.

"Some ten or twelve, but none which present any feature of
interest. They are important, you understand, without being
interesting. Indeed, I have found that it is usually in
unimportant matters that there is a field for the observation,
and for the quick analysis of cause and effect which gives the
charm to an investigation. The larger crimes are apt to be the
simpler, for the bigger the crime the more obvious, as a rule, is
the motive. In these cases, save for one rather intricate matter
which has been referred to me from Marseilles, there is nothing
which presents any features of interest. It is possible, however,
that I may have something better before very many minutes are
over, for this is one of my clients, or I am much mistaken."

He had risen from his chair and was standing between the parted
blinds gazing down into the dull neutral-tinted London street.
Looking over his shoulder, I saw that on the pavement opposite
there stood a large woman with a heavy fur boa round her neck,
and a large curling red feather in a broad-brimmed hat which was
tilted in a coquettish Duchess of Devonshire fashion over her
ear. From under this great panoply she peeped up in a nervous,
hesitating fashion at our windows, while her body oscillated
backward and forward, and her fingers fidgeted with her glove
buttons. Suddenly, with a plunge, as of the swimmer who leaves
the bank, she hurried across the road, and we heard the sharp
clang of the bell.

"I have seen those symptoms before," said Holmes, throwing his
cigarette into the fire. "Oscillation upon the pavement always
means an affaire de coeur. She would like advice, but is not sure
that the matter is not too delicate for communication. And yet
even here we may discriminate. When a woman has been seriously
wronged by a man she no longer oscillates, and the usual symptom
is a broken bell wire. Here we may take it that there is a love
matter, but that the maiden is not so much angry as perplexed, or
grieved. But here she comes in person to resolve our doubts."

As he spoke there was a tap at the door, and the boy in buttons
entered to announce Miss Mary Sutherland, while the lady herself
loomed behind his small black figure like a full-sailed
merchant-man behind a tiny pilot boat. Sherlock Holmes welcomed
her with the easy courtesy for which he was remarkable, and,
having closed the door and bowed her into an armchair, he looked
her over in the minute and yet abstracted fashion which was
peculiar to him.

"Do you not find," he said, "that with your short sight it is a
little trying to do so much typewriting?"

"I did at first," she answered, "but now I know where the letters
are without looking." Then, suddenly realising the full purport
of his words, she gave a violent start and looked up, with fear
and astonishment upon her broad, good-humoured face. "You've
heard about me, Mr. Holmes," she cried, "else how could you know
all that?"

"Never mind," said Holmes, laughing; "it is my business to know
things. Perhaps I have trained myself to see what others
overlook. If not, why should you come to consult me?"

"I came to you, sir, because I heard of you from Mrs. Etherege,
whose husband you found so easy when the police and everyone had
given him up for dead. Oh, Mr. Holmes, I wish you would do as
much for me. I'm not rich, but still I have a hundred a year in
my own right, besides the little that I make by the machine, and
I would give it all to know what has become of Mr. Hosmer Angel."

"Why did you come away to consult me in such a hurry?" asked
Sherlock Holmes, with his finger-tips together and his eyes to
the ceiling.

Again a startled look came over the somewhat vacuous face of Miss
Mary Sutherland. "Yes, I did bang out of the house," she said,
"for it made me angry to see the easy way in which Mr.
Windibank--that is, my father--took it all. He would not go to
the police, and he would not go to you, and so at last, as he
would do nothing and kept on saying that there was no harm done,
it made me mad, and I just on with my things and came right away
to you."

"Your father," said Holmes, "your stepfather, surely, since the
name is different."

"Yes, my stepfather. I call him father, though it sounds funny,
too, for he is only five years and two months older than myself."

"And your mother is alive?"

"Oh, yes, mother is alive and well. I wasn't best pleased, Mr.
Holmes, when she married again so soon after father's death, and
a man who was nearly fifteen years younger than herself. Father
was a plumber in the Tottenham Court Road, and he left a tidy
business behind him, which mother carried on with Mr. Hardy, the
foreman; but when Mr. Windibank came he made her sell the
business, for he was very superior, being a traveller in wines.
They got 4700 pounds for the goodwill and interest, which wasn't
near as much as father could have got if he had been alive."

I had expected to see Sherlock Holmes impatient under this
rambling and inconsequential narrative, but, on the contrary, he
had listened with the greatest concentration of attention.

"Your own little income," he asked, "does it come out of the
business?"

"Oh, no, sir. It is quite separate and was left me by my uncle
Ned in Auckland. It is in New Zealand stock, paying 4 1/2 per
cent. Two thousand five hundred pounds was the amount, but I can
only touch the interest."

"You interest me extremely," said Holmes. "And since you draw so
large a sum as a hundred a year, with what you earn into the
bargain, you no doubt travel a little and indulge yourself in
every way. I believe that a single lady can get on very nicely
upon an income of about 60 pounds."

"I could do with much less than that, Mr. Holmes, but you
understand that as long as I live at home I don't wish to be a
burden to them, and so they have the use of the money just while
I am staying with them. Of course, that is only just for the
time. Mr. Windibank draws my interest every quarter and pays it
over to mother, and I find that I can do pretty well with what I
earn at typewriting. It brings me twopence a sheet, and I can
often do from fifteen to twenty sheets in a day."

"You have made your position very clear to me," said Holmes.
"This is my friend, Dr. Watson, before whom you can speak as
freely as before myself. Kindly tell us now all about your
connection with Mr. Hosmer Angel."

A flush stole over Miss Sutherland's face, and she picked
nervously at the fringe of her jacket. "I met him first at the
gasfitters' ball," she said. "They used to send father tickets
when he was alive, and then afterwards they remembered us, and
sent them to mother. Mr. Windibank did not wish us to go. He
never did wish us to go anywhere. He would get quite mad if I
wanted so much as to join a Sunday-school treat. But this time I
was set on going, and I would go; for what right had he to
prevent? He said the folk were not fit for us to know, when all
father's friends were to be there. And he said that I had nothing
fit to wear, when I had my purple plush that I had never so much
as taken out of the drawer. At last, when nothing else would do,
he went off to France upon the business of the firm, but we went,
mother and I, with Mr. Hardy, who used to be our foreman, and it
was there I met Mr. Hosmer Angel."

"I suppose," said Holmes, "that when Mr. Windibank came back from
France he was very annoyed at your having gone to the ball."

"Oh, well, he was very good about it. He laughed, I remember, and
shrugged his shoulders, and said there was no use denying
anything to a woman, for she would have her way."

"I see. Then at the gasfitters' ball you met, as I understand, a
gentleman called Mr. Hosmer Angel."

"Yes, sir. I met him that night, and he called next day to ask if
we had got home all safe, and after that we met him--that is to
say, Mr. Holmes, I met him twice for walks, but after that father
came back again, and Mr. Hosmer Angel could not come to the house
any more."

"No?"

"Well, you know father didn't like anything of the sort. He
wouldn't have any visitors if he could help it, and he used to
say that a woman should be happy in her own family circle. But
then, as I used to say to mother, a woman wants her own circle to
begin with, and I had not got mine yet."

"But how about Mr. Hosmer Angel? Did he make no attempt to see
you?"

"Well, father was going off to France again in a week, and Hosmer
wrote and said that it would be safer and better not to see each
other until he had gone. We could write in the meantime, and he
used to write every day. I took the letters in in the morning, so
there was no need for father to know."

"Were you engaged to the gentleman at this time?"

"Oh, yes, Mr. Holmes. We were engaged after the first walk that
we took. Hosmer--Mr. Angel--was a cashier in an office in
Leadenhall Street--and--"

"What office?"

"That's the worst of it, Mr. Holmes, I don't know."

"Where did he live, then?"

"He slept on the premises."

"And you don't know his address?"

"No--except that it was Leadenhall Street."

"Where did you address your letters, then?"

"To the Leadenhall Street Post Office, to be left till called
for. He said that if they were sent to the office he would be
chaffed by all the other clerks about having letters from a lady,
so I offered to typewrite them, like he did his, but he wouldn't
have that, for he said that when I wrote them they seemed to come
from me, but when they were typewritten he always felt that the
machine had come between us. That will just show you how fond he
was of me, Mr. Holmes, and the little things that he would think
of."

"It was most suggestive," said Holmes. "It has long been an axiom
of mine that the little things are infinitely the most important.
Can you remember any other little things about Mr. Hosmer Angel?"

"He was a very shy man, Mr. Holmes. He would rather walk with me
in the evening than in the daylight, for he said that he hated to
be conspicuous. Very retiring and gentlemanly he was. Even his
voice was gentle. He'd had the quinsy and swollen glands when he
was young, he told me, and it had left him with a weak throat,
and a hesitating, whispering fashion of speech. He was always
well dressed, very neat and plain, but his eyes were weak, just
as mine are, and he wore tinted glasses against the glare."

"Well, and what happened when Mr. Windibank, your stepfather,
returned to France?"

"Mr. Hosmer Angel came to the house again and proposed that we
should marry before father came back. He was in dreadful earnest
and made me swear, with my hands on the Testament, that whatever
happened I would always be true to him. Mother said he was quite
right to make me swear, and that it was a sign of his passion.
Mother was all in his favour from the first and was even fonder
of him than I was. Then, when they talked of marrying within the
week, I began to ask about father; but they both said never to
mind about father, but just to tell him afterwards, and mother
said she would make it all right with him. I didn't quite like
that, Mr. Holmes. It seemed funny that I should ask his leave, as
he was only a few years older than me; but I didn't want to do
anything on the sly, so I wrote to father at Bordeaux, where the
company has its French offices, but the letter came back to me on
the very morning of the wedding."

"It missed him, then?"

"Yes, sir; for he had started to England just before it arrived."

"Ha! that was unfortunate. Your wedding was arranged, then, for
the Friday. Was it to be in church?"

"Yes, sir, but very quietly. It was to be at St. Saviour's, near
King's Cross, and we were to have breakfast afterwards at the St.
Pancras Hotel. Hosmer came for us in a hansom, but as there were
two of us he put us both into it and stepped himself into a
four-wheeler, which happened to be the only other cab in the
street. We got to the church first, and when the four-wheeler
drove up we waited for him to step out, but he never did, and
when the cabman got down from the box and looked there was no one
there! The cabman said that he could not imagine what had become
of him, for he had seen him get in with his own eyes. That was
last Friday, Mr. Holmes, and I have never seen or heard anything
since then to throw any light upon what became of him."

"It seems to me that you have been very shamefully treated," said
Holmes.

"Oh, no, sir! He was too good and kind to leave me so. Why, all
the morning he was saying to me that, whatever happened, I was to
be true; and that even if something quite unforeseen occurred to
separate us, I was always to remember that I was pledged to him,
and that he would claim his pledge sooner or later. It seemed
strange talk for a wedding-morning, but what has happened since
gives a meaning to it."

"Most certainly it does. Your own opinion is, then, that some
unforeseen catastrophe has occurred to him?"

"Yes, sir. I believe that he foresaw some danger, or else he
would not have talked so. And then I think that what he foresaw
happened."

"But you have no notion as to what it could have been?"

"None."

"One more question. How did your mother take the matter?"

"She was angry, and said that I was never to speak of the matter
again."

"And your father? Did you tell him?"

"Yes; and he seemed to think, with me, that something had
happened, and that I should hear of Hosmer again. As he said,
what interest could anyone have in bringing me to the doors of
the church, and then leaving me? Now, if he had borrowed my
money, or if he had married me and got my money settled on him,
there might be some reason, but Hosmer was very independent about
money and never would look at a shilling of mine. And yet, what
could have happened? And why could he not write? Oh, it drives me
half-mad to think of it, and I can't sleep a wink at night." She
pulled a little handkerchief out of her muff and began to sob
heavily into it.

"I shall glance into the case for you," said Holmes, rising, "and
I have no doubt that we shall reach some definite result. Let the
weight of the matter rest upon me now, and do not let your mind
dwell upon it further. Above all, try to let Mr. Hosmer Angel
vanish from your memory, as he has done from your life."

"Then you don't think I'll see him again?"

"I fear not."

"Then what has happened to him?"

"You will leave that question in my hands. I should like an
accurate description of him and any letters of his which you can
spare."

"I advertised for him in last Saturday's Chronicle," said she.
"Here is the slip and here are four letters from him."

"Thank you. And your address?"

"No. 31 Lyon Place, Camberwell."

"Mr. Angel's address you never had, I understand. Where is your
father's place of business?"

"He travels for Westhouse & Marbank, the great claret importers
of Fenchurch Street."

"Thank you. You have made your statement very clearly. You will
leave the papers here, and remember the advice which I have given
you. Let the whole incident be a sealed book, and do not allow it
to affect your life."

"You are very kind, Mr. Holmes, but I cannot do that. I shall be
true to Hosmer. He shall find me ready when he comes back."

For all the preposterous hat and the vacuous face, there was
something noble in the simple faith of our visitor which
compelled our respect. She laid her little bundle of papers upon
the table and went her way, with a promise to come again whenever
she might be summoned.

Sherlock Holmes sat silent for a few minutes with his fingertips
still pressed together, his legs stretched out in front of him,
and his gaze directed upward to the ceiling. Then he took down
from the rack the old and oily clay pipe, which was to him as a
counsellor, and, having lit it, he leaned back in his chair, with
the thick blue cloud-wreaths spinning up from him, and a look of
infinite languor in his face.

"Quite an interesting study, that maiden," he observed. "I found
her more interesting than her little problem, which, by the way,
is rather a trite one. You will find parallel cases, if you
consult my index, in Andover in '77, and there was something of
the sort at The Hague last year. Old as is the idea, however,
there were one or two details which were new to me. But the
maiden herself was most instructive."

"You appeared to read a good deal upon her which was quite
invisible to me," I remarked.

"Not invisible but unnoticed, Watson. You did not know where to
look, and so you missed all that was important. I can never bring
you to realise the importance of sleeves, the suggestiveness of
thumb-nails, or the great issues that may hang from a boot-lace.
Now, what did you gather from that woman's appearance? Describe
it."

"Well, she had a slate-coloured, broad-brimmed straw hat, with a
feather of a brickish red. Her jacket was black, with black beads
sewn upon it, and a fringe of little black jet ornaments. Her
dress was brown, rather darker than coffee colour, with a little
purple plush at the neck and sleeves. Her gloves were greyish and
were worn through at the right forefinger. Her boots I didn't
observe. She had small round, hanging gold earrings, and a
general air of being fairly well-to-do in a vulgar, comfortable,
easy-going way."

Sherlock Holmes clapped his hands softly together and chuckled.

"'Pon my word, Watson, you are coming along wonderfully. You have
really done very well indeed. It is true that you have missed
everything of importance, but you have hit upon the method, and
you have a quick eye for colour. Never trust to general
impressions, my boy, but concentrate yourself upon details. My
first glance is always at a woman's sleeve. In a man it is
perhaps better first to take the knee of the trouser. As you
observe, this woman had plush upon her sleeves, which is a most
useful material for showing traces. The double line a little
above the wrist, where the typewritist presses against the table,
was beautifully defined. The sewing-machine, of the hand type,
leaves a similar mark, but only on the left arm, and on the side
of it farthest from the thumb, instead of being right across the
broadest part, as this was. I then glanced at her face, and,
observing the dint of a pince-nez at either side of her nose, I
ventured a remark upon short sight and typewriting, which seemed
to surprise her."

"It surprised me."

"But, surely, it was obvious. I was then much surprised and
interested on glancing down to observe that, though the boots
which she was wearing were not unlike each other, they were
really odd ones; the one having a slightly decorated toe-cap, and
the other a plain one. One was buttoned only in the two lower
buttons out of five, and the other at the first, third, and
fifth. Now, when you see that a young lady, otherwise neatly
dressed, has come away from home with odd boots, half-buttoned,
it is no great deduction to say that she came away in a hurry."

"And what else?" I asked, keenly interested, as I always was, by
my friend's incisive reasoning.

"I noted, in passing, that she had written a note before leaving
home but after being fully dressed. You observed that her right
glove was torn at the forefinger, but you did not apparently see
that both glove and finger were stained with violet ink. She had
written in a hurry and dipped her pen too deep. It must have been
this morning, or the mark would not remain clear upon the finger.
All this is amusing, though rather elementary, but I must go back
to business, Watson. Would you mind reading me the advertised
description of Mr. Hosmer Angel?"

I held the little printed slip to the light.

"Missing," it said, "on the morning of the fourteenth, a gentleman
named Hosmer Angel. About five ft. seven in. in height;
strongly built, sallow complexion, black hair, a little bald in
the centre, bushy, black side-whiskers and moustache; tinted
glasses, slight infirmity of speech. Was dressed, when last seen,
in black frock-coat faced with silk, black waistcoat, gold Albert
chain, and grey Harris tweed trousers, with brown gaiters over
elastic-sided boots. Known to have been employed in an office in
Leadenhall Street. Anybody bringing--"

"That will do," said Holmes. "As to the letters," he continued,
glancing over them, "they are very commonplace. Absolutely no
clue in them to Mr. Angel, save that he quotes Balzac once. There
is one remarkable point, however, which will no doubt strike
you."

"They are typewritten," I remarked.

"Not only that, but the signature is typewritten. Look at the
neat little 'Hosmer Angel' at the bottom. There is a date, you
see, but no superscription except Leadenhall Street, which is
rather vague. The point about the signature is very suggestive--in
fact, we may call it conclusive."

"Of what?"

"My dear fellow, is it possible you do not see how strongly it
bears upon the case?"

"I cannot say that I do unless it were that he wished to be able
to deny his signature if an action for breach of promise were
instituted."

"No, that was not the point. However, I shall write two letters,
which should settle the matter. One is to a firm in the City, the
other is to the young lady's stepfather, Mr. Windibank, asking
him whether he could meet us here at six o'clock tomorrow
evening. It is just as well that we should do business with the
male relatives. And now, Doctor, we can do nothing until the
answers to those letters come, so we may put our little problem
upon the shelf for the interim."

I had had so many reasons to believe in my friend's subtle powers
of reasoning and extraordinary energy in action that I felt that
he must have some solid grounds for the assured and easy
demeanour with which he treated the singular mystery which he had
been called upon to fathom. Once only had I known him to fail, in
the case of the King of Bohemia and of the Irene Adler
photograph; but when I looked back to the weird business of the
Sign of Four, and the extraordinary circumstances connected with
the Study in Scarlet, I felt that it would be a strange tangle
indeed which he could not unravel.

I left him then, still puffing at his black clay pipe, with the
conviction that when I came again on the next evening I would
find that he held in his hands all the clues which would lead up
to the identity of the disappearing bridegroom of Miss Mary
Sutherland.

A professional case of great gravity was engaging my own
attention at the time, and the whole of next day I was busy at
the bedside of the sufferer. It was not until close upon six
o'clock that I found myself free and was able to spring into a
hansom and drive to Baker Street, half afraid that I might be too
late to assist at the dénouement of the little mystery. I found
Sherlock Holmes alone, however, half asleep, with his long, thin
form curled up in the recesses of his armchair. A formidable
array of bottles and test-tubes, with the pungent cleanly smell
of hydrochloric acid, told me that he had spent his day in the
chemical work which was so dear to him.

"Well, have you solved it?" I asked as I entered.

"Yes. It was the bisulphate of baryta."

"No, no, the mystery!" I cried.

"Oh, that! I thought of the salt that I have been working upon.
There was never any mystery in the matter, though, as I said
yesterday, some of the details are of interest. The only drawback
is that there is no law, I fear, that can touch the scoundrel."

"Who was he, then, and what was his object in deserting Miss
Sutherland?"

The question was hardly out of my mouth, and Holmes had not yet
opened his lips to reply, when we heard a heavy footfall in the
passage and a tap at the door.

"This is the girl's stepfather, Mr. James Windibank," said
Holmes. "He has written to me to say that he would be here at
six. Come in!"

The man who entered was a sturdy, middle-sized fellow, some
thirty years of age, clean-shaven, and sallow-skinned, with a
bland, insinuating manner, and a pair of wonderfully sharp and
penetrating grey eyes. He shot a questioning glance at each of
us, placed his shiny top-hat upon the sideboard, and with a
slight bow sidled down into the nearest chair.

"Good-evening, Mr. James Windibank," said Holmes. "I think that
this typewritten letter is from you, in which you made an
appointment with me for six o'clock?"

"Yes, sir. I am afraid that I am a little late, but I am not
quite my own master, you know. I am sorry that Miss Sutherland
has troubled you about this little matter, for I think it is far
better not to wash linen of the sort in public. It was quite
against my wishes that she came, but she is a very excitable,
impulsive girl, as you may have noticed, and she is not easily
controlled when she has made up her mind on a point. Of course, I
did not mind you so much, as you are not connected with the
official police, but it is not pleasant to have a family
misfortune like this noised abroad. Besides, it is a useless
expense, for how could you possibly find this Hosmer Angel?"

"On the contrary," said Holmes quietly; "I have every reason to
believe that I will succeed in discovering Mr. Hosmer Angel."

Mr. Windibank gave a violent start and dropped his gloves. "I am
delighted to hear it," he said.

"It is a curious thing," remarked Holmes, "that a typewriter has
really quite as much individuality as a man's handwriting. Unless
they are quite new, no two of them write exactly alike. Some
letters get more worn than others, and some wear only on one
side. Now, you remark in this note of yours, Mr. Windibank, that
in every case there is some little slurring over of the 'e,' and
a slight defect in the tail of the 'r.' There are fourteen other
characteristics, but those are the more obvious."

"We do all our correspondence with this machine at the office,
and no doubt it is a little worn," our visitor answered, glancing
keenly at Holmes with his bright little eyes.

"And now I will show you what is really a very interesting study,
Mr. Windibank," Holmes continued. "I think of writing another
little monograph some of these days on the typewriter and its
relation to crime. It is a subject to which I have devoted some
little attention. I have here four letters which purport to come
from the missing man. They are all typewritten. In each case, not
only are the 'e's' slurred and the 'r's' tailless, but you will
observe, if you care to use my magnifying lens, that the fourteen
other characteristics to which I have alluded are there as well."

Mr. Windibank sprang out of his chair and picked up his hat. "I
cannot waste time over this sort of fantastic talk, Mr. Holmes,"
he said. "If you can catch the man, catch him, and let me know
when you have done it."

"Certainly," said Holmes, stepping over and turning the key in
the door. "I let you know, then, that I have caught him!"

"What! where?" shouted Mr. Windibank, turning white to his lips
and glancing about him like a rat in a trap.

"Oh, it won't do--really it won't," said Holmes suavely. "There
is no possible getting out of it, Mr. Windibank. It is quite too
transparent, and it was a very bad compliment when you said that
it was impossible for me to solve so simple a question. That's
right! Sit down and let us talk it over."

Our visitor collapsed into a chair, with a ghastly face and a
glitter of moisture on his brow. "It--it's not actionable," he
stammered.

"I am very much afraid that it is not. But between ourselves,
Windibank, it was as cruel and selfish and heartless a trick in a
petty way as ever came before me. Now, let me just run over the
course of events, and you will contradict me if I go wrong."

The man sat huddled up in his chair, with his head sunk upon his
breast, like one who is utterly crushed. Holmes stuck his feet up
on the corner of the mantelpiece and, leaning back with his hands
in his pockets, began talking, rather to himself, as it seemed,
than to us.

"The man married a woman very much older than himself for her
money," said he, "and he enjoyed the use of the money of the
daughter as long as she lived with them. It was a considerable
sum, for people in their position, and the loss of it would have
made a serious difference. It was worth an effort to preserve it.
The daughter was of a good, amiable disposition, but affectionate
and warm-hearted in her ways, so that it was evident that with
her fair personal advantages, and her little income, she would
not be allowed to remain single long. Now her marriage would
mean, of course, the loss of a hundred a year, so what does her
stepfather do to prevent it? He takes the obvious course of
keeping her at home and forbidding her to seek the company of
people of her own age. But soon he found that that would not
answer forever. She became restive, insisted upon her rights, and
finally announced her positive intention of going to a certain
ball. What does her clever stepfather do then? He conceives an
idea more creditable to his head than to his heart. With the
connivance and assistance of his wife he disguised himself,
covered those keen eyes with tinted glasses, masked the face with
a moustache and a pair of bushy whiskers, sunk that clear voice
into an insinuating whisper, and doubly secure on account of the
girl's short sight, he appears as Mr. Hosmer Angel, and keeps off
other lovers by making love himself."

"It was only a joke at first," groaned our visitor. "We never
thought that she would have been so carried away."

"Very likely not. However that may be, the young lady was very
decidedly carried away, and, having quite made up her mind that
her stepfather was in France, the suspicion of treachery never
for an instant entered her mind. She was flattered by the
gentleman's attentions, and the effect was increased by the
loudly expressed admiration of her mother. Then Mr. Angel began
to call, for it was obvious that the matter should be pushed as
far as it would go if a real effect were to be produced. There
were meetings, and an engagement, which would finally secure the
girl's affections from turning towards anyone else. But the
deception could not be kept up forever. These pretended journeys
to France were rather cumbrous. The thing to do was clearly to
bring the business to an end in such a dramatic manner that it
would leave a permanent impression upon the young lady's mind and
prevent her from looking upon any other suitor for some time to
come. Hence those vows of fidelity exacted upon a Testament, and
hence also the allusions to a possibility of something happening
on the very morning of the wedding. James Windibank wished Miss
Sutherland to be so bound to Hosmer Angel, and so uncertain as to
his fate, that for ten years to come, at any rate, she would not
listen to another man. As far as the church door he brought her,
and then, as he could go no farther, he conveniently vanished
away by the old trick of stepping in at one door of a
four-wheeler and out at the other. I think that was the chain of
events, Mr. Windibank!"

Our visitor had recovered something of his assurance while Holmes
had been talking, and he rose from his chair now with a cold
sneer upon his pale face.

"It may be so, or it may not, Mr. Holmes," said he, "but if you
are so very sharp you ought to be sharp enough to know that it is
you who are breaking the law now, and not me. I have done nothing
actionable from the first, but as long as you keep that door
locked you lay yourself open to an action for assault and illegal
constraint."

"The law cannot, as you say, touch you," said Holmes, unlocking
and throwing open the door, "yet there never was a man who
deserved punishment more. If the young lady has a brother or a
friend, he ought to lay a whip across your shoulders. By Jove!"
he continued, flushing up at the sight of the bitter sneer upon
the man's face, "it is not part of my duties to my client, but
here's a hunting crop handy, and I think I shall just treat
myself to--" He took two swift steps to the whip, but before he
could grasp it there was a wild clatter of steps upon the stairs,
the heavy hall door banged, and from the window we could see Mr.
James Windibank running at the top of his speed down the road.

"There's a cold-blooded scoundrel!" said Holmes, laughing, as he
threw himself down into his chair once more. "That fellow will
rise from crime to crime until he does something very bad, and
ends on a gallows. The case has, in some respects, been not
entirely devoid of interest."

"I cannot now entirely see all the steps of your reasoning," I
remarked.

"Well, of course it was obvious from the first that this Mr.
Hosmer Angel must have some strong object for his curious
conduct, and it was equally clear that the only man who really
profited by the incident, as far as we could see, was the
stepfather. Then the fact that the two men were never together,
but that the one always appeared when the other was away, was
suggestive. So were the tinted spectacles and the curious voice,
which both hinted at a disguise, as did the bushy whiskers. My
suspicions were all confirmed by his peculiar action in
typewriting his signature, which, of course, inferred that his
handwriting was so familiar to her that she would recognise even
the smallest sample of it. You see all these isolated facts,
together with many minor ones, all pointed in the same
direction."

"And how did you verify them?"

"Having once spotted my man, it was easy to get corroboration. I
knew the firm for which this man worked. Having taken the printed
description. I eliminated everything from it which could be the
result of a disguise--the whiskers, the glasses, the voice, and I
sent it to the firm, with a request that they would inform me
whether it answered to the description of any of their
travellers. I had already noticed the peculiarities of the
typewriter, and I wrote to the man himself at his business
address asking him if he would come here. As I expected, his
reply was typewritten and revealed the same trivial but
characteristic defects. The same post brought me a letter from
Westhouse & Marbank, of Fenchurch Street, to say that the
description tallied in every respect with that of their employé,
James Windibank. Voilà tout!"

"And Miss Sutherland?"

"If I tell her she will not believe me. You may remember the old
Persian saying, 'There is danger for him who taketh the tiger
cub, and danger also for whoso snatches a delusion from a woman.'
There is as much sense in Hafiz as in Horace, and as much
knowledge of the world."



ADVENTURE IV. THE BOSCOMBE VALLEY MYSTERY

We were seated at breakfast one morning, my wife and I, when the
maid brought in a telegram. It was from Sherlock Holmes and ran
in this way:

"Have you a couple of days to spare? Have just been wired for from
the west of England in connection with Boscombe Valley tragedy.
Shall be glad if you will come with me. Air and scenery perfect.
Leave Paddington by the 11:15."

"What do you say, dear?" said my wife, looking across at me.
"Will you go?"

"I really don't know what to say. I have a fairly long list at
present."

"Oh, Anstruther would do your work for you. You have been looking
a little pale lately. I think that the change would do you good,
and you are always so interested in Mr. Sherlock Holmes' cases."

"I should be ungrateful if I were not, seeing what I gained
through one of them," I answered. "But if I am to go, I must pack
at once, for I have only half an hour."

My experience of camp life in Afghanistan had at least had the
effect of making me a prompt and ready traveller. My wants were
few and simple, so that in less than the time stated I was in a
cab with my valise, rattling away to Paddington Station. Sherlock
Holmes was pacing up and down the platform, his tall, gaunt
figure made even gaunter and taller by his long grey
travelling-cloak and close-fitting cloth cap.

"It is really very good of you to come, Watson," said he. "It
makes a considerable difference to me, having someone with me on
whom I can thoroughly rely. Local aid is always either worthless
or else biassed. If you will keep the two corner seats I shall
get the tickets."

We had the carriage to ourselves save for an immense litter of
papers which Holmes had brought with him. Among these he rummaged
and read, with intervals of note-taking and of meditation, until
we were past Reading. Then he suddenly rolled them all into a
gigantic ball and tossed them up onto the rack.

"Have you heard anything of the case?" he asked.

"Not a word. I have not seen a paper for some days."

"The London press has not had very full accounts. I have just
been looking through all the recent papers in order to master the
particulars. It seems, from what I gather, to be one of those
simple cases which are so extremely difficult."

"That sounds a little paradoxical."

"But it is profoundly true. Singularity is almost invariably a
clue. The more featureless and commonplace a crime is, the more
difficult it is to bring it home. In this case, however, they
have established a very serious case against the son of the
murdered man."

"It is a murder, then?"

"Well, it is conjectured to be so. I shall take nothing for
granted until I have the opportunity of looking personally into
it. I will explain the state of things to you, as far as I have
been able to understand it, in a very few words.

"Boscombe Valley is a country district not very far from Ross, in
Herefordshire. The largest landed proprietor in that part is a
Mr. John Turner, who made his money in Australia and returned
some years ago to the old country. One of the farms which he
held, that of Hatherley, was let to Mr. Charles McCarthy, who was
also an ex-Australian. The men had known each other in the
colonies, so that it was not unnatural that when they came to
settle down they should do so as near each other as possible.
Turner was apparently the richer man, so McCarthy became his
tenant but still remained, it seems, upon terms of perfect
equality, as they were frequently together. McCarthy had one son,
a lad of eighteen, and Turner had an only daughter of the same
age, but neither of them had wives living. They appear to have
avoided the society of the neighbouring English families and to
have led retired lives, though both the McCarthys were fond of
sport and were frequently seen at the race-meetings of the
neighbourhood. McCarthy kept two servants--a man and a girl.
Turner had a considerable household, some half-dozen at the
least. That is as much as I have been able to gather about the
families. Now for the facts.

"On June 3rd, that is, on Monday last, McCarthy left his house at
Hatherley about three in the afternoon and walked down to the
Boscombe Pool, which is a small lake formed by the spreading out
of the stream which runs down the Boscombe Valley. He had been
out with his serving-man in the morning at Ross, and he had told
the man that he must hurry, as he had an appointment of
importance to keep at three. From that appointment he never came
back alive.

"From Hatherley Farm-house to the Boscombe Pool is a quarter of a
mile, and two people saw him as he passed over this ground. One
was an old woman, whose name is not mentioned, and the other was
William Crowder, a game-keeper in the employ of Mr. Turner. Both
these witnesses depose that Mr. McCarthy was walking alone. The
game-keeper adds that within a few minutes of his seeing Mr.
McCarthy pass he had seen his son, Mr. James McCarthy, going the
same way with a gun under his arm. To the best of his belief, the
father was actually in sight at the time, and the son was
following him. He thought no more of the matter until he heard in
the evening of the tragedy that had occurred.

"The two McCarthys were seen after the time when William Crowder,
the game-keeper, lost sight of them. The Boscombe Pool is thickly
wooded round, with just a fringe of grass and of reeds round the
edge. A girl of fourteen, Patience Moran, who is the daughter of
the lodge-keeper of the Boscombe Valley estate, was in one of the
woods picking flowers. She states that while she was there she
saw, at the border of the wood and close by the lake, Mr.
McCarthy and his son, and that they appeared to be having a
violent quarrel. She heard Mr. McCarthy the elder using very
strong language to his son, and she saw the latter raise up his
hand as if to strike his father. She was so frightened by their
violence that she ran away and told her mother when she reached
home that she had left the two McCarthys quarrelling near
Boscombe Pool, and that she was afraid that they were going to
fight. She had hardly said the words when young Mr. McCarthy came
running up to the lodge to say that he had found his father dead
in the wood, and to ask for the help of the lodge-keeper. He was
much excited, without either his gun or his hat, and his right
hand and sleeve were observed to be stained with fresh blood. On
following him they found the dead body stretched out upon the
grass beside the pool. The head had been beaten in by repeated
blows of some heavy and blunt weapon. The injuries were such as
might very well have been inflicted by the butt-end of his son's
gun, which was found lying on the grass within a few paces of the
body. Under these circumstances the young man was instantly
arrested, and a verdict of 'wilful murder' having been returned
at the inquest on Tuesday, he was on Wednesday brought before the
magistrates at Ross, who have referred the case to the next
Assizes. Those are the main facts of the case as they came out
before the coroner and the police-court."

"I could hardly imagine a more damning case," I remarked. "If
ever circumstantial evidence pointed to a criminal it does so
here."

"Circumstantial evidence is a very tricky thing," answered Holmes
thoughtfully. "It may seem to point very straight to one thing,
but if you shift your own point of view a little, you may find it
pointing in an equally uncompromising manner to something
entirely different. It must be confessed, however, that the case
looks exceedingly grave against the young man, and it is very
possible that he is indeed the culprit. There are several people
in the neighbourhood, however, and among them Miss Turner, the
daughter of the neighbouring landowner, who believe in his
innocence, and who have retained Lestrade, whom you may recollect
in connection with the Study in Scarlet, to work out the case in
his interest. Lestrade, being rather puzzled, has referred the
case to me, and hence it is that two middle-aged gentlemen are
flying westward at fifty miles an hour instead of quietly
digesting their breakfasts at home."

"I am afraid," said I, "that the facts are so obvious that you
will find little credit to be gained out of this case."

"There is nothing more deceptive than an obvious fact," he
answered, laughing. "Besides, we may chance to hit upon some
other obvious facts which may have been by no means obvious to
Mr. Lestrade. You know me too well to think that I am boasting
when I say that I shall either confirm or destroy his theory by
means which he is quite incapable of employing, or even of
understanding. To take the first example to hand, I very clearly
perceive that in your bedroom the window is upon the right-hand
side, and yet I question whether Mr. Lestrade would have noted
even so self-evident a thing as that."

"How on earth--"

"My dear fellow, I know you well. I know the military neatness
which characterises you. You shave every morning, and in this
season you shave by the sunlight; but since your shaving is less
and less complete as we get farther back on the left side, until
it becomes positively slovenly as we get round the angle of the
jaw, it is surely very clear that that side is less illuminated
than the other. I could not imagine a man of your habits looking
at himself in an equal light and being satisfied with such a
result. I only quote this as a trivial example of observation and
inference. Therein lies my métier, and it is just possible that
it may be of some service in the investigation which lies before
us. There are one or two minor points which were brought out in
the inquest, and which are worth considering."

"What are they?"

"It appears that his arrest did not take place at once, but after
the return to Hatherley Farm. On the inspector of constabulary
informing him that he was a prisoner, he remarked that he was not
surprised to hear it, and that it was no more than his deserts.
This observation of his had the natural effect of removing any
traces of doubt which might have remained in the minds of the
coroner's jury."

"It was a confession," I ejaculated.

"No, for it was followed by a protestation of innocence."

"Coming on the top of such a damning series of events, it was at
least a most suspicious remark."

"On the contrary," said Holmes, "it is the brightest rift which I
can at present see in the clouds. However innocent he might be,
he could not be such an absolute imbecile as not to see that the
circumstances were very black against him. Had he appeared
surprised at his own arrest, or feigned indignation at it, I
should have looked upon it as highly suspicious, because such
surprise or anger would not be natural under the circumstances,
and yet might appear to be the best policy to a scheming man. His
frank acceptance of the situation marks him as either an innocent
man, or else as a man of considerable self-restraint and
firmness. As to his remark about his deserts, it was also not
unnatural if you consider that he stood beside the dead body of
his father, and that there is no doubt that he had that very day
so far forgotten his filial duty as to bandy words with him, and
even, according to the little girl whose evidence is so
important, to raise his hand as if to strike him. The
self-reproach and contrition which are displayed in his remark
appear to me to be the signs of a healthy mind rather than of a
guilty one."

I shook my head. "Many men have been hanged on far slighter
evidence," I remarked.

"So they have. And many men have been wrongfully hanged."

"What is the young man's own account of the matter?"

"It is, I am afraid, not very encouraging to his supporters,
though there are one or two points in it which are suggestive.
You will find it here, and may read it for yourself."

He picked out from his bundle a copy of the local Herefordshire
paper, and having turned down the sheet he pointed out the
paragraph in which the unfortunate young man had given his own
statement of what had occurred. I settled myself down in the
corner of the carriage and read it very carefully. It ran in this
way:

"Mr. James McCarthy, the only son of the deceased, was then called
and gave evidence as follows: 'I had been away from home for
three days at Bristol, and had only just returned upon the
morning of last Monday, the 3rd. My father was absent from home at
the time of my arrival, and I was informed by the maid that he
had driven over to Ross with John Cobb, the groom. Shortly after
my return I heard the wheels of his trap in the yard, and,
looking out of my window, I saw him get out and walk rapidly out
of the yard, though I was not aware in which direction he was
going. I then took my gun and strolled out in the direction of
the Boscombe Pool, with the intention of visiting the rabbit
warren which is upon the other side. On my way I saw William
Crowder, the game-keeper, as he had stated in his evidence; but
he is mistaken in thinking that I was following my father. I had
no idea that he was in front of me. When about a hundred yards
from the pool I heard a cry of "Cooee!" which was a usual signal
between my father and myself. I then hurried forward, and found
him standing by the pool. He appeared to be much surprised at
seeing me and asked me rather roughly what I was doing there. A
conversation ensued which led to high words and almost to blows,
for my father was a man of a very violent temper. Seeing that his
passion was becoming ungovernable, I left him and returned
towards Hatherley Farm. I had not gone more than 150 yards,
however, when I heard a hideous outcry behind me, which caused me
to run back again. I found my father expiring upon the ground,
with his head terribly injured. I dropped my gun and held him in
my arms, but he almost instantly expired. I knelt beside him for
some minutes, and then made my way to Mr. Turner's lodge-keeper,
his house being the nearest, to ask for assistance. I saw no one
near my father when I returned, and I have no idea how he came by
his injuries. He was not a popular man, being somewhat cold and
forbidding in his manners, but he had, as far as I know, no
active enemies. I know nothing further of the matter.'

"The Coroner: Did your father make any statement to you before
he died?

"Witness: He mumbled a few words, but I could only catch some
allusion to a rat.

"The Coroner: What did you understand by that?

"Witness: It conveyed no meaning to me. I thought that he was
delirious.

"The Coroner: What was the point upon which you and your father
had this final quarrel?

"Witness: I should prefer not to answer.

"The Coroner: I am afraid that I must press it.

"Witness: It is really impossible for me to tell you. I can
assure you that it has nothing to do with the sad tragedy which
followed.

"The Coroner: That is for the court to decide. I need not point
out to you that your refusal to answer will prejudice your case
considerably in any future proceedings which may arise.

"Witness: I must still refuse.

"The Coroner: I understand that the cry of 'Cooee' was a common
signal between you and your father?

"Witness: It was.

"The Coroner: How was it, then, that he uttered it before he saw
you, and before he even knew that you had returned from Bristol?

"Witness (with considerable confusion): I do not know.

"A Juryman: Did you see nothing which aroused your suspicions
when you returned on hearing the cry and found your father
fatally injured?

"Witness: Nothing definite.

"The Coroner: What do you mean?

"Witness: I was so disturbed and excited as I rushed out into
the open, that I could think of nothing except of my father. Yet
I have a vague impression that as I ran forward something lay
upon the ground to the left of me. It seemed to me to be
something grey in colour, a coat of some sort, or a plaid perhaps.
When I rose from my father I looked round for it, but it was
gone.

"'Do you mean that it disappeared before you went for help?'

"'Yes, it was gone.'

"'You cannot say what it was?'

"'No, I had a feeling something was there.'

"'How far from the body?'

"'A dozen yards or so.'

"'And how far from the edge of the wood?'

"'About the same.'

"'Then if it was removed it was while you were within a dozen
yards of it?'

"'Yes, but with my back towards it.'

"This concluded the examination of the witness."

"I see," said I as I glanced down the column, "that the coroner
in his concluding remarks was rather severe upon young McCarthy.
He calls attention, and with reason, to the discrepancy about his
father having signalled to him before seeing him, also to his
refusal to give details of his conversation with his father, and
his singular account of his father's dying words. They are all,
as he remarks, very much against the son."

Holmes laughed softly to himself and stretched himself out upon
the cushioned seat. "Both you and the coroner have been at some
pains," said he, "to single out the very strongest points in the
young man's favour. Don't you see that you alternately give him
credit for having too much imagination and too little? Too
little, if he could not invent a cause of quarrel which would
give him the sympathy of the jury; too much, if he evolved from
his own inner consciousness anything so outré as a dying
reference to a rat, and the incident of the vanishing cloth. No,
sir, I shall approach this case from the point of view that what
this young man says is true, and we shall see whither that
hypothesis will lead us. And now here is my pocket Petrarch, and
not another word shall I say of this case until we are on the
scene of action. We lunch at Swindon, and I see that we shall be
there in twenty minutes."

It was nearly four o'clock when we at last, after passing through
the beautiful Stroud Valley, and over the broad gleaming Severn,
found ourselves at the pretty little country-town of Ross. A
lean, ferret-like man, furtive and sly-looking, was waiting for
us upon the platform. In spite of the light brown dustcoat and
leather-leggings which he wore in deference to his rustic
surroundings, I had no difficulty in recognising Lestrade, of
Scotland Yard. With him we drove to the Hereford Arms where a
room had already been engaged for us.

"I have ordered a carriage," said Lestrade as we sat over a cup
of tea. "I knew your energetic nature, and that you would not be
happy until you had been on the scene of the crime."

"It was very nice and complimentary of you," Holmes answered. "It
is entirely a question of barometric pressure."

Lestrade looked startled. "I do not quite follow," he said.

"How is the glass? Twenty-nine, I see. No wind, and not a cloud
in the sky. I have a caseful of cigarettes here which need
smoking, and the sofa is very much superior to the usual country
hotel abomination. I do not think that it is probable that I
shall use the carriage to-night."

Lestrade laughed indulgently. "You have, no doubt, already formed
your conclusions from the newspapers," he said. "The case is as
plain as a pikestaff, and the more one goes into it the plainer
it becomes. Still, of course, one can't refuse a lady, and such a
very positive one, too. She has heard of you, and would have your
opinion, though I repeatedly told her that there was nothing
which you could do which I had not already done. Why, bless my
soul! here is her carriage at the door."

He had hardly spoken before there rushed into the room one of the
most lovely young women that I have ever seen in my life. Her
violet eyes shining, her lips parted, a pink flush upon her
cheeks, all thought of her natural reserve lost in her
overpowering excitement and concern.

"Oh, Mr. Sherlock Holmes!" she cried, glancing from one to the
other of us, and finally, with a woman's quick intuition,
fastening upon my companion, "I am so glad that you have come. I
have driven down to tell you so. I know that James didn't do it.
I know it, and I want you to start upon your work knowing it,
too. Never let yourself doubt upon that point. We have known each
other since we were little children, and I know his faults as no
one else does; but he is too tender-hearted to hurt a fly. Such a
charge is absurd to anyone who really knows him."

"I hope we may clear him, Miss Turner," said Sherlock Holmes.
"You may rely upon my doing all that I can."

"But you have read the evidence. You have formed some conclusion?
Do you not see some loophole, some flaw? Do you not yourself
think that he is innocent?"

"I think that it is very probable."

"There, now!" she cried, throwing back her head and looking
defiantly at Lestrade. "You hear! He gives me hopes."

Lestrade shrugged his shoulders. "I am afraid that my colleague
has been a little quick in forming his conclusions," he said.

"But he is right. Oh! I know that he is right. James never did
it. And about his quarrel with his father, I am sure that the
reason why he would not speak about it to the coroner was because
I was concerned in it."

"In what way?" asked Holmes.

"It is no time for me to hide anything. James and his father had
many disagreements about me. Mr. McCarthy was very anxious that
there should be a marriage between us. James and I have always
loved each other as brother and sister; but of course he is young
and has seen very little of life yet, and--and--well, he
naturally did not wish to do anything like that yet. So there
were quarrels, and this, I am sure, was one of them."

"And your father?" asked Holmes. "Was he in favour of such a
union?"

"No, he was averse to it also. No one but Mr. McCarthy was in
favour of it." A quick blush passed over her fresh young face as
Holmes shot one of his keen, questioning glances at her.

"Thank you for this information," said he. "May I see your father
if I call to-morrow?"

"I am afraid the doctor won't allow it."

"The doctor?"

"Yes, have you not heard? Poor father has never been strong for
years back, but this has broken him down completely. He has taken
to his bed, and Dr. Willows says that he is a wreck and that his
nervous system is shattered. Mr. McCarthy was the only man alive
who had known dad in the old days in Victoria."

"Ha! In Victoria! That is important."

"Yes, at the mines."

"Quite so; at the gold-mines, where, as I understand, Mr. Turner
made his money."

"Yes, certainly."

"Thank you, Miss Turner. You have been of material assistance to
me."

"You will tell me if you have any news to-morrow. No doubt you
will go to the prison to see James. Oh, if you do, Mr. Holmes, do
tell him that I know him to be innocent."

"I will, Miss Turner."

"I must go home now, for dad is very ill, and he misses me so if
I leave him. Good-bye, and God help you in your undertaking." She
hurried from the room as impulsively as she had entered, and we
heard the wheels of her carriage rattle off down the street.

"I am ashamed of you, Holmes," said Lestrade with dignity after a
few minutes' silence. "Why should you raise up hopes which you
are bound to disappoint? I am not over-tender of heart, but I
call it cruel."

"I think that I see my way to clearing James McCarthy," said
Holmes. "Have you an order to see him in prison?"

"Yes, but only for you and me."

"Then I shall reconsider my resolution about going out. We have
still time to take a train to Hereford and see him to-night?"

"Ample."

"Then let us do so. Watson, I fear that you will find it very
slow, but I shall only be away a couple of hours."

I walked down to the station with them, and then wandered through
the streets of the little town, finally returning to the hotel,
where I lay upon the sofa and tried to interest myself in a
yellow-backed novel. The puny plot of the story was so thin,
however, when compared to the deep mystery through which we were
groping, and I found my attention wander so continually from the
action to the fact, that I at last flung it across the room and
gave myself up entirely to a consideration of the events of the
day. Supposing that this unhappy young man's story were
absolutely true, then what hellish thing, what absolutely
unforeseen and extraordinary calamity could have occurred between
the time when he parted from his father, and the moment when,
drawn back by his screams, he rushed into the glade? It was
something terrible and deadly. What could it be? Might not the
nature of the injuries reveal something to my medical instincts?
I rang the bell and called for the weekly county paper, which
contained a verbatim account of the inquest. In the surgeon's
deposition it was stated that the posterior third of the left
parietal bone and the left half of the occipital bone had been
shattered by a heavy blow from a blunt weapon. I marked the spot
upon my own head. Clearly such a blow must have been struck from
behind. That was to some extent in favour of the accused, as when
seen quarrelling he was face to face with his father. Still, it
did not go for very much, for the older man might have turned his
back before the blow fell. Still, it might be worth while to call
Holmes' attention to it. Then there was the peculiar dying
reference to a rat. What could that mean? It could not be
delirium. A man dying from a sudden blow does not commonly become
delirious. No, it was more likely to be an attempt to explain how
he met his fate. But what could it indicate? I cudgelled my
brains to find some possible explanation. And then the incident
of the grey cloth seen by young McCarthy. If that were true the
murderer must have dropped some part of his dress, presumably his
overcoat, in his flight, and must have had the hardihood to
return and to carry it away at the instant when the son was
kneeling with his back turned not a dozen paces off. What a
tissue of mysteries and improbabilities the whole thing was! I
did not wonder at Lestrade's opinion, and yet I had so much faith
in Sherlock Holmes' insight that I could not lose hope as long
as every fresh fact seemed to strengthen his conviction of young
McCarthy's innocence.

It was late before Sherlock Holmes returned. He came back alone,
for Lestrade was staying in lodgings in the town.

"The glass still keeps very high," he remarked as he sat down.
"It is of importance that it should not rain before we are able
to go over the ground. On the other hand, a man should be at his
very best and keenest for such nice work as that, and I did not
wish to do it when fagged by a long journey. I have seen young
McCarthy."

"And what did you learn from him?"

"Nothing."

"Could he throw no light?"

"None at all. I was inclined to think at one time that he knew
who had done it and was screening him or her, but I am convinced
now that he is as puzzled as everyone else. He is not a very
quick-witted youth, though comely to look at and, I should think,
sound at heart."

"I cannot admire his taste," I remarked, "if it is indeed a fact
that he was averse to a marriage with so charming a young lady as
this Miss Turner."

"Ah, thereby hangs a rather painful tale. This fellow is madly,
insanely, in love with her, but some two years ago, when he was
only a lad, and before he really knew her, for she had been away
five years at a boarding-school, what does the idiot do but get
into the clutches of a barmaid in Bristol and marry her at a
registry office? No one knows a word of the matter, but you can
imagine how maddening it must be to him to be upbraided for not
doing what he would give his very eyes to do, but what he knows
to be absolutely impossible. It was sheer frenzy of this sort
which made him throw his hands up into the air when his father,
at their last interview, was goading him on to propose to Miss
Turner. On the other hand, he had no means of supporting himself,
and his father, who was by all accounts a very hard man, would
have thrown him over utterly had he known the truth. It was with
his barmaid wife that he had spent the last three days in
Bristol, and his father did not know where he was. Mark that
point. It is of importance. Good has come out of evil, however,
for the barmaid, finding from the papers that he is in serious
trouble and likely to be hanged, has thrown him over utterly and
has written to him to say that she has a husband already in the
Bermuda Dockyard, so that there is really no tie between them. I
think that that bit of news has consoled young McCarthy for all
that he has suffered."

"But if he is innocent, who has done it?"

"Ah! who? I would call your attention very particularly to two
points. One is that the murdered man had an appointment with
someone at the pool, and that the someone could not have been his
son, for his son was away, and he did not know when he would
return. The second is that the murdered man was heard to cry
'Cooee!' before he knew that his son had returned. Those are the
crucial points upon which the case depends. And now let us talk
about George Meredith, if you please, and we shall leave all
minor matters until to-morrow."

There was no rain, as Holmes had foretold, and the morning broke
bright and cloudless. At nine o'clock Lestrade called for us with
the carriage, and we set off for Hatherley Farm and the Boscombe
Pool.

"There is serious news this morning," Lestrade observed. "It is
said that Mr. Turner, of the Hall, is so ill that his life is
despaired of."

"An elderly man, I presume?" said Holmes.

"About sixty; but his constitution has been shattered by his life
abroad, and he has been in failing health for some time. This
business has had a very bad effect upon him. He was an old friend
of McCarthy's, and, I may add, a great benefactor to him, for I
have learned that he gave him Hatherley Farm rent free."

"Indeed! That is interesting," said Holmes.

"Oh, yes! In a hundred other ways he has helped him. Everybody
about here speaks of his kindness to him."

"Really! Does it not strike you as a little singular that this
McCarthy, who appears to have had little of his own, and to have
been under such obligations to Turner, should still talk of
marrying his son to Turner's daughter, who is, presumably,
heiress to the estate, and that in such a very cocksure manner,
as if it were merely a case of a proposal and all else would
follow? It is the more strange, since we know that Turner himself
was averse to the idea. The daughter told us as much. Do you not
deduce something from that?"

"We have got to the deductions and the inferences," said
Lestrade, winking at me. "I find it hard enough to tackle facts,
Holmes, without flying away after theories and fancies."

"You are right," said Holmes demurely; "you do find it very hard
to tackle the facts."

"Anyhow, I have grasped one fact which you seem to find it
difficult to get hold of," replied Lestrade with some warmth.

"And that is--"

"That McCarthy senior met his death from McCarthy junior and that
all theories to the contrary are the merest moonshine."

"Well, moonshine is a brighter thing than fog," said Holmes,
laughing. "But I am very much mistaken if this is not Hatherley
Farm upon the left."

"Yes, that is it." It was a widespread, comfortable-looking
building, two-storied, slate-roofed, with great yellow blotches
of lichen upon the grey walls. The drawn blinds and the smokeless
chimneys, however, gave it a stricken look, as though the weight
of this horror still lay heavy upon it. We called at the door,
when the maid, at Holmes' request, showed us the boots which her
master wore at the time of his death, and also a pair of the
son's, though not the pair which he had then had. Having measured
these very carefully from seven or eight different points, Holmes
desired to be led to the court-yard, from which we all followed
the winding track which led to Boscombe Pool.

Sherlock Holmes was transformed when he was hot upon such a scent
as this. Men who had only known the quiet thinker and logician of
Baker Street would have failed to recognise him. His face flushed
and darkened. His brows were drawn into two hard black lines,
while his eyes shone out from beneath them with a steely glitter.
His face was bent downward, his shoulders bowed, his lips
compressed, and the veins stood out like whipcord in his long,
sinewy neck. His nostrils seemed to dilate with a purely animal
lust for the chase, and his mind was so absolutely concentrated
upon the matter before him that a question or remark fell
unheeded upon his ears, or, at the most, only provoked a quick,
impatient snarl in reply. Swiftly and silently he made his way
along the track which ran through the meadows, and so by way of
the woods to the Boscombe Pool. It was damp, marshy ground, as is
all that district, and there were marks of many feet, both upon
the path and amid the short grass which bounded it on either
side. Sometimes Holmes would hurry on, sometimes stop dead, and
once he made quite a little detour into the meadow. Lestrade and
I walked behind him, the detective indifferent and contemptuous,
while I watched my friend with the interest which sprang from the
conviction that every one of his actions was directed towards a
definite end.

The Boscombe Pool, which is a little reed-girt sheet of water
some fifty yards across, is situated at the boundary between the
Hatherley Farm and the private park of the wealthy Mr. Turner.
Above the woods which lined it upon the farther side we could see
the red, jutting pinnacles which marked the site of the rich
landowner's dwelling. On the Hatherley side of the pool the woods
grew very thick, and there was a narrow belt of sodden grass
twenty paces across between the edge of the trees and the reeds
which lined the lake. Lestrade showed us the exact spot at which
the body had been found, and, indeed, so moist was the ground,
that I could plainly see the traces which had been left by the
fall of the stricken man. To Holmes, as I could see by his eager
face and peering eyes, very many other things were to be read
upon the trampled grass. He ran round, like a dog who is picking
up a scent, and then turned upon my companion.

"What did you go into the pool for?" he asked.

"I fished about with a rake. I thought there might be some weapon
or other trace. But how on earth--"

"Oh, tut, tut! I have no time! That left foot of yours with its
inward twist is all over the place. A mole could trace it, and
there it vanishes among the reeds. Oh, how simple it would all
have been had I been here before they came like a herd of buffalo
and wallowed all over it. Here is where the party with the
lodge-keeper came, and they have covered all tracks for six or
eight feet round the body. But here are three separate tracks of
the same feet." He drew out a lens and lay down upon his
waterproof to have a better view, talking all the time rather to
himself than to us. "These are young McCarthy's feet. Twice he
was walking, and once he ran swiftly, so that the soles are
deeply marked and the heels hardly visible. That bears out his
story. He ran when he saw his father on the ground. Then here are
the father's feet as he paced up and down. What is this, then? It
is the butt-end of the gun as the son stood listening. And this?
Ha, ha! What have we here? Tiptoes! tiptoes! Square, too, quite
unusual boots! They come, they go, they come again--of course
that was for the cloak. Now where did they come from?" He ran up
and down, sometimes losing, sometimes finding the track until we
were well within the edge of the wood and under the shadow of a
great beech, the largest tree in the neighbourhood. Holmes traced
his way to the farther side of this and lay down once more upon
his face with a little cry of satisfaction. For a long time he
remained there, turning over the leaves and dried sticks,
gathering up what seemed to me to be dust into an envelope and
examining with his lens not only the ground but even the bark of
the tree as far as he could reach. A jagged stone was lying among
the moss, and this also he carefully examined and retained. Then
he followed a pathway through the wood until he came to the
highroad, where all traces were lost.

"It has been a case of considerable interest," he remarked,
returning to his natural manner. "I fancy that this grey house on
the right must be the lodge. I think that I will go in and have a
word with Moran, and perhaps write a little note. Having done
that, we may drive back to our luncheon. You may walk to the cab,
and I shall be with you presently."

It was about ten minutes before we regained our cab and drove
back into Ross, Holmes still carrying with him the stone which he
had picked up in the wood.

"This may interest you, Lestrade," he remarked, holding it out.
"The murder was done with it."

"I see no marks."

"There are none."

"How do you know, then?"

"The grass was growing under it. It had only lain there a few
days. There was no sign of a place whence it had been taken. It
corresponds with the injuries. There is no sign of any other
weapon."

"And the murderer?"

"Is a tall man, left-handed, limps with the right leg, wears
thick-soled shooting-boots and a grey cloak, smokes Indian
cigars, uses a cigar-holder, and carries a blunt pen-knife in his
pocket. There are several other indications, but these may be
enough to aid us in our search."

Lestrade laughed. "I am afraid that I am still a sceptic," he
said. "Theories are all very well, but we have to deal with a
hard-headed British jury."

"Nous verrons," answered Holmes calmly. "You work your own
method, and I shall work mine. I shall be busy this afternoon,
and shall probably return to London by the evening train."

"And leave your case unfinished?"

"No, finished."

"But the mystery?"

"It is solved."

"Who was the criminal, then?"

"The gentleman I describe."

"But who is he?"

"Surely it would not be difficult to find out. This is not such a
populous neighbourhood."

Lestrade shrugged his shoulders. "I am a practical man," he said,
"and I really cannot undertake to go about the country looking
for a left-handed gentleman with a game leg. I should become the
laughing-stock of Scotland Yard."

"All right," said Holmes quietly. "I have given you the chance.
Here are your lodgings. Good-bye. I shall drop you a line before
I leave."

Having left Lestrade at his rooms, we drove to our hotel, where
we found lunch upon the table. Holmes was silent and buried in
thought with a pained expression upon his face, as one who finds
himself in a perplexing position.

"Look here, Watson," he said when the cloth was cleared "just sit
down in this chair and let me preach to you for a little. I don't
know quite what to do, and I should value your advice. Light a
cigar and let me expound."

 "Pray do so."

"Well, now, in considering this case there are two points about
young McCarthy's narrative which struck us both instantly,
although they impressed me in his favour and you against him. One
was the fact that his father should, according to his account,
cry 'Cooee!' before seeing him. The other was his singular dying
reference to a rat. He mumbled several words, you understand, but
that was all that caught the son's ear. Now from this double
point our research must commence, and we will begin it by
presuming that what the lad says is absolutely true."

"What of this 'Cooee!' then?"

"Well, obviously it could not have been meant for the son. The
son, as far as he knew, was in Bristol. It was mere chance that
he was within earshot. The 'Cooee!' was meant to attract the
attention of whoever it was that he had the appointment with. But
'Cooee' is a distinctly Australian cry, and one which is used
between Australians. There is a strong presumption that the
person whom McCarthy expected to meet him at Boscombe Pool was
someone who had been in Australia."

"What of the rat, then?"

Sherlock Holmes took a folded paper from his pocket and flattened
it out on the table. "This is a map of the Colony of Victoria,"
he said. "I wired to Bristol for it last night." He put his hand
over part of the map. "What do you read?"

"ARAT," I read.

"And now?" He raised his hand.

"BALLARAT."

"Quite so. That was the word the man uttered, and of which his
son only caught the last two syllables. He was trying to utter
the name of his murderer. So and so, of Ballarat."

"It is wonderful!" I exclaimed.

"It is obvious. And now, you see, I had narrowed the field down
considerably. The possession of a grey garment was a third point
which, granting the son's statement to be correct, was a
certainty. We have come now out of mere vagueness to the definite
conception of an Australian from Ballarat with a grey cloak."

"Certainly."

"And one who was at home in the district, for the pool can only
be approached by the farm or by the estate, where strangers could
hardly wander."

"Quite so."

"Then comes our expedition of to-day. By an examination of the
ground I gained the trifling details which I gave to that
imbecile Lestrade, as to the personality of the criminal."

"But how did you gain them?"

"You know my method. It is founded upon the observation of
trifles."

"His height I know that you might roughly judge from the length
of his stride. His boots, too, might be told from their traces."

"Yes, they were peculiar boots."

"But his lameness?"

"The impression of his right foot was always less distinct than
his left. He put less weight upon it. Why? Because he limped--he
was lame."

"But his left-handedness."

"You were yourself struck by the nature of the injury as recorded
by the surgeon at the inquest. The blow was struck from
immediately behind, and yet was upon the left side. Now, how can
that be unless it were by a left-handed man? He had stood behind
that tree during the interview between the father and son. He had
even smoked there. I found the ash of a cigar, which my special
knowledge of tobacco ashes enables me to pronounce as an Indian
cigar. I have, as you know, devoted some attention to this, and
written a little monograph on the ashes of 140 different
varieties of pipe, cigar, and cigarette tobacco. Having found the
ash, I then looked round and discovered the stump among the moss
where he had tossed it. It was an Indian cigar, of the variety
which are rolled in Rotterdam."

"And the cigar-holder?"

"I could see that the end had not been in his mouth. Therefore he
used a holder. The tip had been cut off, not bitten off, but the
cut was not a clean one, so I deduced a blunt pen-knife."

"Holmes," I said, "you have drawn a net round this man from which
he cannot escape, and you have saved an innocent human life as
truly as if you had cut the cord which was hanging him. I see the
direction in which all this points. The culprit is--"

"Mr. John Turner," cried the hotel waiter, opening the door of
our sitting-room, and ushering in a visitor.

The man who entered was a strange and impressive figure. His
slow, limping step and bowed shoulders gave the appearance of
decrepitude, and yet his hard, deep-lined, craggy features, and
his enormous limbs showed that he was possessed of unusual
strength of body and of character. His tangled beard, grizzled
hair, and outstanding, drooping eyebrows combined to give an air
of dignity and power to his appearance, but his face was of an
ashen white, while his lips and the corners of his nostrils were
tinged with a shade of blue. It was clear to me at a glance that
he was in the grip of some deadly and chronic disease.

"Pray sit down on the sofa," said Holmes gently. "You had my
note?"

"Yes, the lodge-keeper brought it up. You said that you wished to
see me here to avoid scandal."

"I thought people would talk if I went to the Hall."

"And why did you wish to see me?" He looked across at my
companion with despair in his weary eyes, as though his question
was already answered.

"Yes," said Holmes, answering the look rather than the words. "It
is so. I know all about McCarthy."

The old man sank his face in his hands. "God help me!" he cried.
"But I would not have let the young man come to harm. I give you
my word that I would have spoken out if it went against him at
the Assizes."

"I am glad to hear you say so," said Holmes gravely.

"I would have spoken now had it not been for my dear girl. It
would break her heart--it will break her heart when she hears
that I am arrested."

"It may not come to that," said Holmes.

"What?"

"I am no official agent. I understand that it was your daughter
who required my presence here, and I am acting in her interests.
Young McCarthy must be got off, however."

"I am a dying man," said old Turner. "I have had diabetes for
years. My doctor says it is a question whether I shall live a
month. Yet I would rather die under my own roof than in a gaol."

Holmes rose and sat down at the table with his pen in his hand
and a bundle of paper before him. "Just tell us the truth," he
said. "I shall jot down the facts. You will sign it, and Watson
here can witness it. Then I could produce your confession at the
last extremity to save young McCarthy. I promise you that I shall
not use it unless it is absolutely needed."

"It's as well," said the old man; "it's a question whether I
shall live to the Assizes, so it matters little to me, but I
should wish to spare Alice the shock. And now I will make the
thing clear to you; it has been a long time in the acting, but
will not take me long to tell.

"You didn't know this dead man, McCarthy. He was a devil
incarnate. I tell you that. God keep you out of the clutches of
such a man as he. His grip has been upon me these twenty years,
and he has blasted my life. I'll tell you first how I came to be
in his power.

"It was in the early '60's at the diggings. I was a young chap
then, hot-blooded and reckless, ready to turn my hand at
anything; I got among bad companions, took to drink, had no luck
with my claim, took to the bush, and in a word became what you
would call over here a highway robber. There were six of us, and
we had a wild, free life of it, sticking up a station from time
to time, or stopping the wagons on the road to the diggings.
Black Jack of Ballarat was the name I went under, and our party
is still remembered in the colony as the Ballarat Gang.

"One day a gold convoy came down from Ballarat to Melbourne, and
we lay in wait for it and attacked it. There were six troopers
and six of us, so it was a close thing, but we emptied four of
their saddles at the first volley. Three of our boys were killed,
however, before we got the swag. I put my pistol to the head of
the wagon-driver, who was this very man McCarthy. I wish to the
Lord that I had shot him then, but I spared him, though I saw his
wicked little eyes fixed on my face, as though to remember every
feature. We got away with the gold, became wealthy men, and made
our way over to England without being suspected. There I parted
from my old pals and determined to settle down to a quiet and
respectable life. I bought this estate, which chanced to be in
the market, and I set myself to do a little good with my money,
to make up for the way in which I had earned it. I married, too,
and though my wife died young she left me my dear little Alice.
Even when she was just a baby her wee hand seemed to lead me down
the right path as nothing else had ever done. In a word, I turned
over a new leaf and did my best to make up for the past. All was
going well when McCarthy laid his grip upon me.

"I had gone up to town about an investment, and I met him in
Regent Street with hardly a coat to his back or a boot to his
foot.

"'Here we are, Jack,' says he, touching me on the arm; 'we'll be
as good as a family to you. There's two of us, me and my son, and
you can have the keeping of us. If you don't--it's a fine,
law-abiding country is England, and there's always a policeman
within hail.'

"Well, down they came to the west country, there was no shaking
them off, and there they have lived rent free on my best land
ever since. There was no rest for me, no peace, no forgetfulness;
turn where I would, there was his cunning, grinning face at my
elbow. It grew worse as Alice grew up, for he soon saw I was more
afraid of her knowing my past than of the police. Whatever he
wanted he must have, and whatever it was I gave him without
question, land, money, houses, until at last he asked a thing
which I could not give. He asked for Alice.

"His son, you see, had grown up, and so had my girl, and as I was
known to be in weak health, it seemed a fine stroke to him that
his lad should step into the whole property. But there I was
firm. I would not have his cursed stock mixed with mine; not that
I had any dislike to the lad, but his blood was in him, and that
was enough. I stood firm. McCarthy threatened. I braved him to do
his worst. We were to meet at the pool midway between our houses
to talk it over.

"When I went down there I found him talking with his son, so I
smoked a cigar and waited behind a tree until he should be alone.
But as I listened to his talk all that was black and bitter in
me seemed to come uppermost. He was urging his son to marry my
daughter with as little regard for what she might think as if she
were a slut from off the streets. It drove me mad to think that I
and all that I held most dear should be in the power of such a
man as this. Could I not snap the bond? I was already a dying and
a desperate man. Though clear of mind and fairly strong of limb,
I knew that my own fate was sealed. But my memory and my girl!
Both could be saved if I could but silence that foul tongue. I
did it, Mr. Holmes. I would do it again. Deeply as I have sinned,
I have led a life of martyrdom to atone for it. But that my girl
should be entangled in the same meshes which held me was more
than I could suffer. I struck him down with no more compunction
than if he had been some foul and venomous beast. His cry brought
back his son; but I had gained the cover of the wood, though I
was forced to go back to fetch the cloak which I had dropped in
my flight. That is the true story, gentlemen, of all that
occurred."

"Well, it is not for me to judge you," said Holmes as the old man
signed the statement which had been drawn out. "I pray that we
may never be exposed to such a temptation."

"I pray not, sir. And what do you intend to do?"

"In view of your health, nothing. You are yourself aware that you
will soon have to answer for your deed at a higher court than the
Assizes. I will keep your confession, and if McCarthy is
condemned I shall be forced to use it. If not, it shall never be
seen by mortal eye; and your secret, whether you be alive or
dead, shall be safe with us."

"Farewell, then," said the old man solemnly. "Your own deathbeds,
when they come, will be the easier for the thought of the peace
which you have given to mine." Tottering and shaking in all his
giant frame, he stumbled slowly from the room.

"God help us!" said Holmes after a long silence. "Why does fate
play such tricks with poor, helpless worms? I never hear of such
a case as this that I do not think of Baxter's words, and say,
'There, but for the grace of God, goes Sherlock Holmes.'"

James McCarthy was acquitted at the Assizes on the strength of a
number of objections which had been drawn out by Holmes and
submitted to the defending counsel. Old Turner lived for seven
months after our interview, but he is now dead; and there is
every prospect that the son and daughter may come to live happily
together in ignorance of the black cloud which rests upon their
past.



ADVENTURE V. THE FIVE ORANGE PIPS

When I glance over my notes and records of the Sherlock Holmes
cases between the years '82 and '90, I am faced by so many which
present strange and interesting features that it is no easy
matter to know which to choose and which to leave. Some, however,
have already gained publicity through the papers, and others have
not offered a field for those peculiar qualities which my friend
possessed in so high a degree, and which it is the object of
these papers to illustrate. Some, too, have baffled his
analytical skill, and would be, as narratives, beginnings without
an ending, while others have been but partially cleared up, and
have their explanations founded rather upon conjecture and
surmise than on that absolute logical proof which was so dear to
him. There is, however, one of these last which was so remarkable
in its details and so startling in its results that I am tempted
to give some account of it in spite of the fact that there are
points in connection with it which never have been, and probably
never will be, entirely cleared up.

The year '87 furnished us with a long series of cases of greater
or less interest, of which I retain the records. Among my
headings under this one twelve months I find an account of the
adventure of the Paradol Chamber, of the Amateur Mendicant
Society, who held a luxurious club in the lower vault of a
furniture warehouse, of the facts connected with the loss of the
British barque "Sophy Anderson", of the singular adventures of the
Grice Patersons in the island of Uffa, and finally of the
Camberwell poisoning case. In the latter, as may be remembered,
Sherlock Holmes was able, by winding up the dead man's watch, to
prove that it had been wound up two hours before, and that
therefore the deceased had gone to bed within that time--a
deduction which was of the greatest importance in clearing up the
case. All these I may sketch out at some future date, but none of
them present such singular features as the strange train of
circumstances which I have now taken up my pen to describe.

It was in the latter days of September, and the equinoctial gales
had set in with exceptional violence. All day the wind had
screamed and the rain had beaten against the windows, so that
even here in the heart of great, hand-made London we were forced
to raise our minds for the instant from the routine of life and
to recognise the presence of those great elemental forces which
shriek at mankind through the bars of his civilisation, like
untamed beasts in a cage. As evening drew in, the storm grew
higher and louder, and the wind cried and sobbed like a child in
the chimney. Sherlock Holmes sat moodily at one side of the
fireplace cross-indexing his records of crime, while I at the
other was deep in one of Clark Russell's fine sea-stories until
the howl of the gale from without seemed to blend with the text,
and the splash of the rain to lengthen out into the long swash of
the sea waves. My wife was on a visit to her mother's, and for a
few days I was a dweller once more in my old quarters at Baker
Street.

"Why," said I, glancing up at my companion, "that was surely the
bell. Who could come to-night? Some friend of yours, perhaps?"

"Except yourself I have none," he answered. "I do not encourage
visitors."

"A client, then?"

"If so, it is a serious case. Nothing less would bring a man out
on such a day and at such an hour. But I take it that it is more
likely to be some crony of the landlady's."

Sherlock Holmes was wrong in his conjecture, however, for there
came a step in the passage and a tapping at the door. He
stretched out his long arm to turn the lamp away from himself and
towards the vacant chair upon which a newcomer must sit.

"Come in!" said he.

The man who entered was young, some two-and-twenty at the
outside, well-groomed and trimly clad, with something of
refinement and delicacy in his bearing. The streaming umbrella
which he held in his hand, and his long shining waterproof told
of the fierce weather through which he had come. He looked about
him anxiously in the glare of the lamp, and I could see that his
face was pale and his eyes heavy, like those of a man who is
weighed down with some great anxiety.

"I owe you an apology," he said, raising his golden pince-nez to
his eyes. "I trust that I am not intruding. I fear that I have
brought some traces of the storm and rain into your snug
chamber."

"Give me your coat and umbrella," said Holmes. "They may rest
here on the hook and will be dry presently. You have come up from
the south-west, I see."

"Yes, from Horsham."

"That clay and chalk mixture which I see upon your toe caps is
quite distinctive."

"I have come for advice."

"That is easily got."

"And help."

"That is not always so easy."

"I have heard of you, Mr. Holmes. I heard from Major Prendergast
how you saved him in the Tankerville Club scandal."

"Ah, of course. He was wrongfully accused of cheating at cards."

"He said that you could solve anything."

"He said too much."

"That you are never beaten."

"I have been beaten four times--three times by men, and once by a
woman."

"But what is that compared with the number of your successes?"

"It is true that I have been generally successful."

"Then you may be so with me."

"I beg that you will draw your chair up to the fire and favour me
with some details as to your case."

"It is no ordinary one."

"None of those which come to me are. I am the last court of
appeal."

"And yet I question, sir, whether, in all your experience, you
have ever listened to a more mysterious and inexplicable chain of
events than those which have happened in my own family."

"You fill me with interest," said Holmes. "Pray give us the
essential facts from the commencement, and I can afterwards
question you as to those details which seem to me to be most
important."

The young man pulled his chair up and pushed his wet feet out
towards the blaze.

"My name," said he, "is John Openshaw, but my own affairs have,
as far as I can understand, little to do with this awful
business. It is a hereditary matter; so in order to give you an
idea of the facts, I must go back to the commencement of the
affair.

"You must know that my grandfather had two sons--my uncle Elias
and my father Joseph. My father had a small factory at Coventry,
which he enlarged at the time of the invention of bicycling. He
was a patentee of the Openshaw unbreakable tire, and his business
met with such success that he was able to sell it and to retire
upon a handsome competence.

"My uncle Elias emigrated to America when he was a young man and
became a planter in Florida, where he was reported to have done
very well. At the time of the war he fought in Jackson's army,
and afterwards under Hood, where he rose to be a colonel. When
Lee laid down his arms my uncle returned to his plantation, where
he remained for three or four years. About 1869 or 1870 he came
back to Europe and took a small estate in Sussex, near Horsham.
He had made a very considerable fortune in the States, and his
reason for leaving them was his aversion to the negroes, and his
dislike of the Republican policy in extending the franchise to
them. He was a singular man, fierce and quick-tempered, very
foul-mouthed when he was angry, and of a most retiring
disposition. During all the years that he lived at Horsham, I
doubt if ever he set foot in the town. He had a garden and two or
three fields round his house, and there he would take his
exercise, though very often for weeks on end he would never leave
his room. He drank a great deal of brandy and smoked very
heavily, but he would see no society and did not want any
friends, not even his own brother.

"He didn't mind me; in fact, he took a fancy to me, for at the
time when he saw me first I was a youngster of twelve or so. This
would be in the year 1878, after he had been eight or nine years
in England. He begged my father to let me live with him and he
was very kind to me in his way. When he was sober he used to be
fond of playing backgammon and draughts with me, and he would
make me his representative both with the servants and with the
tradespeople, so that by the time that I was sixteen I was quite
master of the house. I kept all the keys and could go where I
liked and do what I liked, so long as I did not disturb him in
his privacy. There was one singular exception, however, for he
had a single room, a lumber-room up among the attics, which was
invariably locked, and which he would never permit either me or
anyone else to enter. With a boy's curiosity I have peeped
through the keyhole, but I was never able to see more than such a
collection of old trunks and bundles as would be expected in such
a room.

"One day--it was in March, 1883--a letter with a foreign stamp
lay upon the table in front of the colonel's plate. It was not a
common thing for him to receive letters, for his bills were all
paid in ready money, and he had no friends of any sort. 'From
India!' said he as he took it up, 'Pondicherry postmark! What can
this be?' Opening it hurriedly, out there jumped five little
dried orange pips, which pattered down upon his plate. I began to
laugh at this, but the laugh was struck from my lips at the sight
of his face. His lip had fallen, his eyes were protruding, his
skin the colour of putty, and he glared at the envelope which he
still held in his trembling hand, 'K. K. K.!' he shrieked, and
then, 'My God, my God, my sins have overtaken me!'

"'What is it, uncle?' I cried.

"'Death,' said he, and rising from the table he retired to his
room, leaving me palpitating with horror. I took up the envelope
and saw scrawled in red ink upon the inner flap, just above the
gum, the letter K three times repeated. There was nothing else
save the five dried pips. What could be the reason of his
overpowering terror? I left the breakfast-table, and as I
ascended the stair I met him coming down with an old rusty key,
which must have belonged to the attic, in one hand, and a small
brass box, like a cashbox, in the other.

"'They may do what they like, but I'll checkmate them still,'
said he with an oath. 'Tell Mary that I shall want a fire in my
room to-day, and send down to Fordham, the Horsham lawyer.'

"I did as he ordered, and when the lawyer arrived I was asked to
step up to the room. The fire was burning brightly, and in the
grate there was a mass of black, fluffy ashes, as of burned
paper, while the brass box stood open and empty beside it. As I
glanced at the box I noticed, with a start, that upon the lid was
printed the treble K which I had read in the morning upon the
envelope.

"'I wish you, John,' said my uncle, 'to witness my will. I leave
my estate, with all its advantages and all its disadvantages, to
my brother, your father, whence it will, no doubt, descend to
you. If you can enjoy it in peace, well and good! If you find you
cannot, take my advice, my boy, and leave it to your deadliest
enemy. I am sorry to give you such a two-edged thing, but I can't
say what turn things are going to take. Kindly sign the paper
where Mr. Fordham shows you.'

"I signed the paper as directed, and the lawyer took it away with
him. The singular incident made, as you may think, the deepest
impression upon me, and I pondered over it and turned it every
way in my mind without being able to make anything of it. Yet I
could not shake off the vague feeling of dread which it left
behind, though the sensation grew less keen as the weeks passed
and nothing happened to disturb the usual routine of our lives. I
could see a change in my uncle, however. He drank more than ever,
and he was less inclined for any sort of society. Most of his
time he would spend in his room, with the door locked upon the
inside, but sometimes he would emerge in a sort of drunken frenzy
and would burst out of the house and tear about the garden with a
revolver in his hand, screaming out that he was afraid of no man,
and that he was not to be cooped up, like a sheep in a pen, by
man or devil. When these hot fits were over, however, he would
rush tumultuously in at the door and lock and bar it behind him,
like a man who can brazen it out no longer against the terror
which lies at the roots of his soul. At such times I have seen
his face, even on a cold day, glisten with moisture, as though it
were new raised from a basin.

"Well, to come to an end of the matter, Mr. Holmes, and not to
abuse your patience, there came a night when he made one of those
drunken sallies from which he never came back. We found him, when
we went to search for him, face downward in a little
green-scummed pool, which lay at the foot of the garden. There
was no sign of any violence, and the water was but two feet deep,
so that the jury, having regard to his known eccentricity,
brought in a verdict of 'suicide.' But I, who knew how he winced
from the very thought of death, had much ado to persuade myself
that he had gone out of his way to meet it. The matter passed,
however, and my father entered into possession of the estate, and
of some 14,000 pounds, which lay to his credit at the bank."

"One moment," Holmes interposed, "your statement is, I foresee,
one of the most remarkable to which I have ever listened. Let me
have the date of the reception by your uncle of the letter, and
the date of his supposed suicide."

"The letter arrived on March 10, 1883. His death was seven weeks
later, upon the night of May 2nd."

"Thank you. Pray proceed."

"When my father took over the Horsham property, he, at my
request, made a careful examination of the attic, which had been
always locked up. We found the brass box there, although its
contents had been destroyed. On the inside of the cover was a
paper label, with the initials of K. K. K. repeated upon it, and
'Letters, memoranda, receipts, and a register' written beneath.
These, we presume, indicated the nature of the papers which had
been destroyed by Colonel Openshaw. For the rest, there was
nothing of much importance in the attic save a great many
scattered papers and note-books bearing upon my uncle's life in
America. Some of them were of the war time and showed that he had
done his duty well and had borne the repute of a brave soldier.
Others were of a date during the reconstruction of the Southern
states, and were mostly concerned with politics, for he had
evidently taken a strong part in opposing the carpet-bag
politicians who had been sent down from the North.

"Well, it was the beginning of '84 when my father came to live at
Horsham, and all went as well as possible with us until the
January of '85. On the fourth day after the new year I heard my
father give a sharp cry of surprise as we sat together at the
breakfast-table. There he was, sitting with a newly opened
envelope in one hand and five dried orange pips in the
outstretched palm of the other one. He had always laughed at what
he called my cock-and-bull story about the colonel, but he looked
very scared and puzzled now that the same thing had come upon
himself.

"'Why, what on earth does this mean, John?' he stammered.

"My heart had turned to lead. 'It is K. K. K.,' said I.

"He looked inside the envelope. 'So it is,' he cried. 'Here are
the very letters. But what is this written above them?'

"'Put the papers on the sundial,' I read, peeping over his
shoulder.

"'What papers? What sundial?' he asked.

"'The sundial in the garden. There is no other,' said I; 'but the
papers must be those that are destroyed.'

"'Pooh!' said he, gripping hard at his courage. 'We are in a
civilised land here, and we can't have tomfoolery of this kind.
Where does the thing come from?'

"'From Dundee,' I answered, glancing at the postmark.

"'Some preposterous practical joke,' said he. 'What have I to do
with sundials and papers? I shall take no notice of such
nonsense.'

"'I should certainly speak to the police,' I said.

"'And be laughed at for my pains. Nothing of the sort.'

"'Then let me do so?'

"'No, I forbid you. I won't have a fuss made about such
nonsense.'

"It was in vain to argue with him, for he was a very obstinate
man. I went about, however, with a heart which was full of
forebodings.

"On the third day after the coming of the letter my father went
from home to visit an old friend of his, Major Freebody, who is
in command of one of the forts upon Portsdown Hill. I was glad
that he should go, for it seemed to me that he was farther from
danger when he was away from home. In that, however, I was in
error. Upon the second day of his absence I received a telegram
from the major, imploring me to come at once. My father had
fallen over one of the deep chalk-pits which abound in the
neighbourhood, and was lying senseless, with a shattered skull. I
hurried to him, but he passed away without having ever recovered
his consciousness. He had, as it appears, been returning from
Fareham in the twilight, and as the country was unknown to him,
and the chalk-pit unfenced, the jury had no hesitation in
bringing in a verdict of 'death from accidental causes.'
Carefully as I examined every fact connected with his death, I
was unable to find anything which could suggest the idea of
murder. There were no signs of violence, no footmarks, no
robbery, no record of strangers having been seen upon the roads.
And yet I need not tell you that my mind was far from at ease,
and that I was well-nigh certain that some foul plot had been
woven round him.

"In this sinister way I came into my inheritance. You will ask me
why I did not dispose of it? I answer, because I was well
convinced that our troubles were in some way dependent upon an
incident in my uncle's life, and that the danger would be as
pressing in one house as in another.

"It was in January, '85, that my poor father met his end, and two
years and eight months have elapsed since then. During that time
I have lived happily at Horsham, and I had begun to hope that
this curse had passed away from the family, and that it had ended
with the last generation. I had begun to take comfort too soon,
however; yesterday morning the blow fell in the very shape in
which it had come upon my father."

The young man took from his waistcoat a crumpled envelope, and
turning to the table he shook out upon it five little dried
orange pips.

"This is the envelope," he continued. "The postmark is
London--eastern division. Within are the very words which were
upon my father's last message: 'K. K. K.'; and then 'Put the
papers on the sundial.'"

"What have you done?" asked Holmes.

"Nothing."

"Nothing?"

"To tell the truth"--he sank his face into his thin, white
hands--"I have felt helpless. I have felt like one of those poor
rabbits when the snake is writhing towards it. I seem to be in
the grasp of some resistless, inexorable evil, which no foresight
and no precautions can guard against."

"Tut! tut!" cried Sherlock Holmes. "You must act, man, or you are
lost. Nothing but energy can save you. This is no time for
despair."

"I have seen the police."

"Ah!"

"But they listened to my story with a smile. I am convinced that
the inspector has formed the opinion that the letters are all
practical jokes, and that the deaths of my relations were really
accidents, as the jury stated, and were not to be connected with
the warnings."

Holmes shook his clenched hands in the air. "Incredible
imbecility!" he cried.

"They have, however, allowed me a policeman, who may remain in
the house with me."

"Has he come with you to-night?"

"No. His orders were to stay in the house."

Again Holmes raved in the air.

"Why did you come to me," he cried, "and, above all, why did you
not come at once?"

"I did not know. It was only to-day that I spoke to Major
Prendergast about my troubles and was advised by him to come to
you."

"It is really two days since you had the letter. We should have
acted before this. You have no further evidence, I suppose, than
that which you have placed before us--no suggestive detail which
might help us?"

"There is one thing," said John Openshaw. He rummaged in his coat
pocket, and, drawing out a piece of discoloured, blue-tinted
paper, he laid it out upon the table. "I have some remembrance,"
said he, "that on the day when my uncle burned the papers I
observed that the small, unburned margins which lay amid the
ashes were of this particular colour. I found this single sheet
upon the floor of his room, and I am inclined to think that it
may be one of the papers which has, perhaps, fluttered out from
among the others, and in that way has escaped destruction. Beyond
the mention of pips, I do not see that it helps us much. I think
myself that it is a page from some private diary. The writing is
undoubtedly my uncle's."

Holmes moved the lamp, and we both bent over the sheet of paper,
which showed by its ragged edge that it had indeed been torn from
a book. It was headed, "March, 1869," and beneath were the
following enigmatical notices:

"4th. Hudson came. Same old platform.

"7th. Set the pips on McCauley, Paramore, and
      John Swain, of St. Augustine.

"9th. McCauley cleared.

"10th. John Swain cleared.

"12th. Visited Paramore. All well."

"Thank you!" said Holmes, folding up the paper and returning it
to our visitor. "And now you must on no account lose another
instant. We cannot spare time even to discuss what you have told
me. You must get home instantly and act."

"What shall I do?"

"There is but one thing to do. It must be done at once. You must
put this piece of paper which you have shown us into the brass
box which you have described. You must also put in a note to say
that all the other papers were burned by your uncle, and that
this is the only one which remains. You must assert that in such
words as will carry conviction with them. Having done this, you
must at once put the box out upon the sundial, as directed. Do
you understand?"

"Entirely."

"Do not think of revenge, or anything of the sort, at present. I
think that we may gain that by means of the law; but we have our
web to weave, while theirs is already woven. The first
consideration is to remove the pressing danger which threatens
you. The second is to clear up the mystery and to punish the
guilty parties."

"I thank you," said the young man, rising and pulling on his
overcoat. "You have given me fresh life and hope. I shall
certainly do as you advise."

"Do not lose an instant. And, above all, take care of yourself in
the meanwhile, for I do not think that there can be a doubt that
you are threatened by a very real and imminent danger. How do you
go back?"

"By train from Waterloo."

"It is not yet nine. The streets will be crowded, so I trust that
you may be in safety. And yet you cannot guard yourself too
closely."

"I am armed."

"That is well. To-morrow I shall set to work upon your case."

"I shall see you at Horsham, then?"

"No, your secret lies in London. It is there that I shall seek
it."

"Then I shall call upon you in a day, or in two days, with news
as to the box and the papers. I shall take your advice in every
particular." He shook hands with us and took his leave. Outside
the wind still screamed and the rain splashed and pattered
against the windows. This strange, wild story seemed to have come
to us from amid the mad elements--blown in upon us like a sheet
of sea-weed in a gale--and now to have been reabsorbed by them
once more.

Sherlock Holmes sat for some time in silence, with his head sunk
forward and his eyes bent upon the red glow of the fire. Then he
lit his pipe, and leaning back in his chair he watched the blue
smoke-rings as they chased each other up to the ceiling.

"I think, Watson," he remarked at last, "that of all our cases we
have had none more fantastic than this."

"Save, perhaps, the Sign of Four."

"Well, yes. Save, perhaps, that. And yet this John Openshaw seems
to me to be walking amid even greater perils than did the
Sholtos."

"But have you," I asked, "formed any definite conception as to
what these perils are?"

"There can be no question as to their nature," he answered.

"Then what are they? Who is this K. K. K., and why does he pursue
this unhappy family?"

Sherlock Holmes closed his eyes and placed his elbows upon the
arms of his chair, with his finger-tips together. "The ideal
reasoner," he remarked, "would, when he had once been shown a
single fact in all its bearings, deduce from it not only all the
chain of events which led up to it but also all the results which
would follow from it. As Cuvier could correctly describe a whole
animal by the contemplation of a single bone, so the observer who
has thoroughly understood one link in a series of incidents
should be able to accurately state all the other ones, both
before and after. We have not yet grasped the results which the
reason alone can attain to. Problems may be solved in the study
which have baffled all those who have sought a solution by the
aid of their senses. To carry the art, however, to its highest
pitch, it is necessary that the reasoner should be able to
utilise all the facts which have come to his knowledge; and this
in itself implies, as you will readily see, a possession of all
knowledge, which, even in these days of free education and
encyclopaedias, is a somewhat rare accomplishment. It is not so
impossible, however, that a man should possess all knowledge
which is likely to be useful to him in his work, and this I have
endeavoured in my case to do. If I remember rightly, you on one
occasion, in the early days of our friendship, defined my limits
in a very precise fashion."

"Yes," I answered, laughing. "It was a singular document.
Philosophy, astronomy, and politics were marked at zero, I
remember. Botany variable, geology profound as regards the
mud-stains from any region within fifty miles of town, chemistry
eccentric, anatomy unsystematic, sensational literature and crime
records unique, violin-player, boxer, swordsman, lawyer, and
self-poisoner by cocaine and tobacco. Those, I think, were the
main points of my analysis."

Holmes grinned at the last item. "Well," he said, "I say now, as
I said then, that a man should keep his little brain-attic
stocked with all the furniture that he is likely to use, and the
rest he can put away in the lumber-room of his library, where he
can get it if he wants it. Now, for such a case as the one which
has been submitted to us to-night, we need certainly to muster
all our resources. Kindly hand me down the letter K of the
'American Encyclopaedia' which stands upon the shelf beside you.
Thank you. Now let us consider the situation and see what may be
deduced from it. In the first place, we may start with a strong
presumption that Colonel Openshaw had some very strong reason for
leaving America. Men at his time of life do not change all their
habits and exchange willingly the charming climate of Florida for
the lonely life of an English provincial town. His extreme love
of solitude in England suggests the idea that he was in fear of
someone or something, so we may assume as a working hypothesis
that it was fear of someone or something which drove him from
America. As to what it was he feared, we can only deduce that by
considering the formidable letters which were received by himself
and his successors. Did you remark the postmarks of those
letters?"

"The first was from Pondicherry, the second from Dundee, and the
third from London."

"From East London. What do you deduce from that?"

"They are all seaports. That the writer was on board of a ship."

"Excellent. We have already a clue. There can be no doubt that
the probability--the strong probability--is that the writer was
on board of a ship. And now let us consider another point. In the
case of Pondicherry, seven weeks elapsed between the threat and
its fulfilment, in Dundee it was only some three or four days.
Does that suggest anything?"

"A greater distance to travel."

"But the letter had also a greater distance to come."

"Then I do not see the point."

"There is at least a presumption that the vessel in which the man
or men are is a sailing-ship. It looks as if they always send
their singular warning or token before them when starting upon
their mission. You see how quickly the deed followed the sign
when it came from Dundee. If they had come from Pondicherry in a
steamer they would have arrived almost as soon as their letter.
But, as a matter of fact, seven weeks elapsed. I think that those
seven weeks represented the difference between the mail-boat which
brought the letter and the sailing vessel which brought the
writer."

"It is possible."

"More than that. It is probable. And now you see the deadly
urgency of this new case, and why I urged young Openshaw to
caution. The blow has always fallen at the end of the time which
it would take the senders to travel the distance. But this one
comes from London, and therefore we cannot count upon delay."

"Good God!" I cried. "What can it mean, this relentless
persecution?"

"The papers which Openshaw carried are obviously of vital
importance to the person or persons in the sailing-ship. I think
that it is quite clear that there must be more than one of them.
A single man could not have carried out two deaths in such a way
as to deceive a coroner's jury. There must have been several in
it, and they must have been men of resource and determination.
Their papers they mean to have, be the holder of them who it may.
In this way you see K. K. K. ceases to be the initials of an
individual and becomes the badge of a society."

"But of what society?"

"Have you never--" said Sherlock Holmes, bending forward and
sinking his voice--"have you never heard of the Ku Klux Klan?"

"I never have."

Holmes turned over the leaves of the book upon his knee. "Here it
is," said he presently:

"'Ku Klux Klan. A name derived from the fanciful resemblance to
the sound produced by cocking a rifle. This terrible secret
society was formed by some ex-Confederate soldiers in the
Southern states after the Civil War, and it rapidly formed local
branches in different parts of the country, notably in Tennessee,
Louisiana, the Carolinas, Georgia, and Florida. Its power was
used for political purposes, principally for the terrorising of
the negro voters and the murdering and driving from the country
of those who were opposed to its views. Its outrages were usually
preceded by a warning sent to the marked man in some fantastic
but generally recognised shape--a sprig of oak-leaves in some
parts, melon seeds or orange pips in others. On receiving this
the victim might either openly abjure his former ways, or might
fly from the country. If he braved the matter out, death would
unfailingly come upon him, and usually in some strange and
unforeseen manner. So perfect was the organisation of the
society, and so systematic its methods, that there is hardly a
case upon record where any man succeeded in braving it with
impunity, or in which any of its outrages were traced home to the
perpetrators. For some years the organisation flourished in spite
of the efforts of the United States government and of the better
classes of the community in the South. Eventually, in the year
1869, the movement rather suddenly collapsed, although there have
been sporadic outbreaks of the same sort since that date.'

"You will observe," said Holmes, laying down the volume, "that
the sudden breaking up of the society was coincident with the
disappearance of Openshaw from America with their papers. It may
well have been cause and effect. It is no wonder that he and his
family have some of the more implacable spirits upon their track.
You can understand that this register and diary may implicate
some of the first men in the South, and that there may be many
who will not sleep easy at night until it is recovered."

"Then the page we have seen--"

"Is such as we might expect. It ran, if I remember right, 'sent
the pips to A, B, and C'--that is, sent the society's warning to
them. Then there are successive entries that A and B cleared, or
left the country, and finally that C was visited, with, I fear, a
sinister result for C. Well, I think, Doctor, that we may let
some light into this dark place, and I believe that the only
chance young Openshaw has in the meantime is to do what I have
told him. There is nothing more to be said or to be done
to-night, so hand me over my violin and let us try to forget for
half an hour the miserable weather and the still more miserable
ways of our fellow-men."


It had cleared in the morning, and the sun was shining with a
subdued brightness through the dim veil which hangs over the
great city. Sherlock Holmes was already at breakfast when I came
down.

"You will excuse me for not waiting for you," said he; "I have, I
foresee, a very busy day before me in looking into this case of
young Openshaw's."

"What steps will you take?" I asked.

"It will very much depend upon the results of my first inquiries.
I may have to go down to Horsham, after all."

"You will not go there first?"

"No, I shall commence with the City. Just ring the bell and the
maid will bring up your coffee."

As I waited, I lifted the unopened newspaper from the table and
glanced my eye over it. It rested upon a heading which sent a
chill to my heart.

"Holmes," I cried, "you are too late."

"Ah!" said he, laying down his cup, "I feared as much. How was it
done?" He spoke calmly, but I could see that he was deeply moved.

"My eye caught the name of Openshaw, and the heading 'Tragedy
Near Waterloo Bridge.' Here is the account:

"Between nine and ten last night Police-Constable Cook, of the H
Division, on duty near Waterloo Bridge, heard a cry for help and
a splash in the water. The night, however, was extremely dark and
stormy, so that, in spite of the help of several passers-by, it
was quite impossible to effect a rescue. The alarm, however, was
given, and, by the aid of the water-police, the body was
eventually recovered. It proved to be that of a young gentleman
whose name, as it appears from an envelope which was found in his
pocket, was John Openshaw, and whose residence is near Horsham.
It is conjectured that he may have been hurrying down to catch
the last train from Waterloo Station, and that in his haste and
the extreme darkness he missed his path and walked over the edge
of one of the small landing-places for river steamboats. The body
exhibited no traces of violence, and there can be no doubt that
the deceased had been the victim of an unfortunate accident,
which should have the effect of calling the attention of the
authorities to the condition of the riverside landing-stages."

We sat in silence for some minutes, Holmes more depressed and
shaken than I had ever seen him.

"That hurts my pride, Watson," he said at last. "It is a petty
feeling, no doubt, but it hurts my pride. It becomes a personal
matter with me now, and, if God sends me health, I shall set my
hand upon this gang. That he should come to me for help, and that
I should send him away to his death--!" He sprang from his chair
and paced about the room in uncontrollable agitation, with a
flush upon his sallow cheeks and a nervous clasping and
unclasping of his long thin hands.

"They must be cunning devils," he exclaimed at last. "How could
they have decoyed him down there? The Embankment is not on the
direct line to the station. The bridge, no doubt, was too
crowded, even on such a night, for their purpose. Well, Watson,
we shall see who will win in the long run. I am going out now!"

"To the police?"

"No; I shall be my own police. When I have spun the web they may
take the flies, but not before."

All day I was engaged in my professional work, and it was late in
the evening before I returned to Baker Street. Sherlock Holmes
had not come back yet. It was nearly ten o'clock before he
entered, looking pale and worn. He walked up to the sideboard,
and tearing a piece from the loaf he devoured it voraciously,
washing it down with a long draught of water.

"You are hungry," I remarked.

"Starving. It had escaped my memory. I have had nothing since
breakfast."

"Nothing?"

"Not a bite. I had no time to think of it."

"And how have you succeeded?"

"Well."

"You have a clue?"

"I have them in the hollow of my hand. Young Openshaw shall not
long remain unavenged. Why, Watson, let us put their own devilish
trade-mark upon them. It is well thought of!"

"What do you mean?"

He took an orange from the cupboard, and tearing it to pieces he
squeezed out the pips upon the table. Of these he took five and
thrust them into an envelope. On the inside of the flap he wrote
"S. H. for J. O." Then he sealed it and addressed it to "Captain
James Calhoun, Barque 'Lone Star,' Savannah, Georgia."

"That will await him when he enters port," said he, chuckling.
"It may give him a sleepless night. He will find it as sure a
precursor of his fate as Openshaw did before him."

"And who is this Captain Calhoun?"

"The leader of the gang. I shall have the others, but he first."

"How did you trace it, then?"

He took a large sheet of paper from his pocket, all covered with
dates and names.

"I have spent the whole day," said he, "over Lloyd's registers
and files of the old papers, following the future career of every
vessel which touched at Pondicherry in January and February in
'83. There were thirty-six ships of fair tonnage which were
reported there during those months. Of these, one, the 'Lone Star,'
instantly attracted my attention, since, although it was reported
as having cleared from London, the name is that which is given to
one of the states of the Union."

"Texas, I think."

"I was not and am not sure which; but I knew that the ship must
have an American origin."

"What then?"

"I searched the Dundee records, and when I found that the barque
'Lone Star' was there in January, '85, my suspicion became a
certainty. I then inquired as to the vessels which lay at present
in the port of London."

"Yes?"

"The 'Lone Star' had arrived here last week. I went down to the
Albert Dock and found that she had been taken down the river by
the early tide this morning, homeward bound to Savannah. I wired
to Gravesend and learned that she had passed some time ago, and
as the wind is easterly I have no doubt that she is now past the
Goodwins and not very far from the Isle of Wight."

"What will you do, then?"

"Oh, I have my hand upon him. He and the two mates, are as I
learn, the only native-born Americans in the ship. The others are
Finns and Germans. I know, also, that they were all three away
from the ship last night. I had it from the stevedore who has
been loading their cargo. By the time that their sailing-ship
reaches Savannah the mail-boat will have carried this letter, and
the cable will have informed the police of Savannah that these
three gentlemen are badly wanted here upon a charge of murder."

There is ever a flaw, however, in the best laid of human plans,
and the murderers of John Openshaw were never to receive the
orange pips which would show them that another, as cunning and as
resolute as themselves, was upon their track. Very long and very
severe were the equinoctial gales that year. We waited long for
news of the "Lone Star" of Savannah, but none ever reached us. We
did at last hear that somewhere far out in the Atlantic a
shattered stern-post of a boat was seen swinging in the trough
of a wave, with the letters "L. S." carved upon it, and that is
all which we shall ever know of the fate of the "Lone Star."



ADVENTURE VI. THE MAN WITH THE TWISTED LIP

Isa Whitney, brother of the late Elias Whitney, D.D., Principal
of the Theological College of St. George's, was much addicted to
opium. The habit grew upon him, as I understand, from some
foolish freak when he was at college; for having read De
Quincey's description of his dreams and sensations, he had
drenched his tobacco with laudanum in an attempt to produce the
same effects. He found, as so many more have done, that the
practice is easier to attain than to get rid of, and for many
years he continued to be a slave to the drug, an object of
mingled horror and pity to his friends and relatives. I can see
him now, with yellow, pasty face, drooping lids, and pin-point
pupils, all huddled in a chair, the wreck and ruin of a noble
man.

One night--it was in June, '89--there came a ring to my bell,
about the hour when a man gives his first yawn and glances at the
clock. I sat up in my chair, and my wife laid her needle-work
down in her lap and made a little face of disappointment.

"A patient!" said she. "You'll have to go out."

I groaned, for I was newly come back from a weary day.

We heard the door open, a few hurried words, and then quick steps
upon the linoleum. Our own door flew open, and a lady, clad in
some dark-coloured stuff, with a black veil, entered the room.

"You will excuse my calling so late," she began, and then,
suddenly losing her self-control, she ran forward, threw her arms
about my wife's neck, and sobbed upon her shoulder. "Oh, I'm in
such trouble!" she cried; "I do so want a little help."

"Why," said my wife, pulling up her veil, "it is Kate Whitney.
How you startled me, Kate! I had not an idea who you were when
you came in."

"I didn't know what to do, so I came straight to you." That was
always the way. Folk who were in grief came to my wife like birds
to a light-house.

"It was very sweet of you to come. Now, you must have some wine
and water, and sit here comfortably and tell us all about it. Or
should you rather that I sent James off to bed?"

"Oh, no, no! I want the doctor's advice and help, too. It's about
Isa. He has not been home for two days. I am so frightened about
him!"

It was not the first time that she had spoken to us of her
husband's trouble, to me as a doctor, to my wife as an old friend
and school companion. We soothed and comforted her by such words
as we could find. Did she know where her husband was? Was it
possible that we could bring him back to her?

It seems that it was. She had the surest information that of late
he had, when the fit was on him, made use of an opium den in the
farthest east of the City. Hitherto his orgies had always been
confined to one day, and he had come back, twitching and
shattered, in the evening. But now the spell had been upon him
eight-and-forty hours, and he lay there, doubtless among the
dregs of the docks, breathing in the poison or sleeping off the
effects. There he was to be found, she was sure of it, at the Bar
of Gold, in Upper Swandam Lane. But what was she to do? How could
she, a young and timid woman, make her way into such a place and
pluck her husband out from among the ruffians who surrounded him?

There was the case, and of course there was but one way out of
it. Might I not escort her to this place? And then, as a second
thought, why should she come at all? I was Isa Whitney's medical
adviser, and as such I had influence over him. I could manage it
better if I were alone. I promised her on my word that I would
send him home in a cab within two hours if he were indeed at the
address which she had given me. And so in ten minutes I had left
my armchair and cheery sitting-room behind me, and was speeding
eastward in a hansom on a strange errand, as it seemed to me at
the time, though the future only could show how strange it was to
be.

But there was no great difficulty in the first stage of my
adventure. Upper Swandam Lane is a vile alley lurking behind the
high wharves which line the north side of the river to the east
of London Bridge. Between a slop-shop and a gin-shop, approached
by a steep flight of steps leading down to a black gap like the
mouth of a cave, I found the den of which I was in search.
Ordering my cab to wait, I passed down the steps, worn hollow in
the centre by the ceaseless tread of drunken feet; and by the
light of a flickering oil-lamp above the door I found the latch
and made my way into a long, low room, thick and heavy with the
brown opium smoke, and terraced with wooden berths, like the
forecastle of an emigrant ship.

Through the gloom one could dimly catch a glimpse of bodies lying
in strange fantastic poses, bowed shoulders, bent knees, heads
thrown back, and chins pointing upward, with here and there a
dark, lack-lustre eye turned upon the newcomer. Out of the black
shadows there glimmered little red circles of light, now bright,
now faint, as the burning poison waxed or waned in the bowls of
the metal pipes. The most lay silent, but some muttered to
themselves, and others talked together in a strange, low,
monotonous voice, their conversation coming in gushes, and then
suddenly tailing off into silence, each mumbling out his own
thoughts and paying little heed to the words of his neighbour. At
the farther end was a small brazier of burning charcoal, beside
which on a three-legged wooden stool there sat a tall, thin old
man, with his jaw resting upon his two fists, and his elbows upon
his knees, staring into the fire.

As I entered, a sallow Malay attendant had hurried up with a pipe
for me and a supply of the drug, beckoning me to an empty berth.

"Thank you. I have not come to stay," said I. "There is a friend
of mine here, Mr. Isa Whitney, and I wish to speak with him."

There was a movement and an exclamation from my right, and
peering through the gloom, I saw Whitney, pale, haggard, and
unkempt, staring out at me.

"My God! It's Watson," said he. He was in a pitiable state of
reaction, with every nerve in a twitter. "I say, Watson, what
o'clock is it?"

"Nearly eleven."

"Of what day?"

"Of Friday, June 19th."

"Good heavens! I thought it was Wednesday. It is Wednesday. What
d'you want to frighten a chap for?" He sank his face onto his
arms and began to sob in a high treble key.

"I tell you that it is Friday, man. Your wife has been waiting
this two days for you. You should be ashamed of yourself!"

"So I am. But you've got mixed, Watson, for I have only been here
a few hours, three pipes, four pipes--I forget how many. But I'll
go home with you. I wouldn't frighten Kate--poor little Kate.
Give me your hand! Have you a cab?"

"Yes, I have one waiting."

"Then I shall go in it. But I must owe something. Find what I
owe, Watson. I am all off colour. I can do nothing for myself."

I walked down the narrow passage between the double row of
sleepers, holding my breath to keep out the vile, stupefying
fumes of the drug, and looking about for the manager. As I passed
the tall man who sat by the brazier I felt a sudden pluck at my
skirt, and a low voice whispered, "Walk past me, and then look
back at me." The words fell quite distinctly upon my ear. I
glanced down. They could only have come from the old man at my
side, and yet he sat now as absorbed as ever, very thin, very
wrinkled, bent with age, an opium pipe dangling down from between
his knees, as though it had dropped in sheer lassitude from his
fingers. I took two steps forward and looked back. It took all my
self-control to prevent me from breaking out into a cry of
astonishment. He had turned his back so that none could see him
but I. His form had filled out, his wrinkles were gone, the dull
eyes had regained their fire, and there, sitting by the fire and
grinning at my surprise, was none other than Sherlock Holmes. He
made a slight motion to me to approach him, and instantly, as he
turned his face half round to the company once more, subsided
into a doddering, loose-lipped senility.

"Holmes!" I whispered, "what on earth are you doing in this den?"

"As low as you can," he answered; "I have excellent ears. If you
would have the great kindness to get rid of that sottish friend
of yours I should be exceedingly glad to have a little talk with
you."

"I have a cab outside."

"Then pray send him home in it. You may safely trust him, for he
appears to be too limp to get into any mischief. I should
recommend you also to send a note by the cabman to your wife to
say that you have thrown in your lot with me. If you will wait
outside, I shall be with you in five minutes."

It was difficult to refuse any of Sherlock Holmes' requests, for
they were always so exceedingly definite, and put forward with
such a quiet air of mastery. I felt, however, that when Whitney
was once confined in the cab my mission was practically
accomplished; and for the rest, I could not wish anything better
than to be associated with my friend in one of those singular
adventures which were the normal condition of his existence. In a
few minutes I had written my note, paid Whitney's bill, led him
out to the cab, and seen him driven through the darkness. In a
very short time a decrepit figure had emerged from the opium den,
and I was walking down the street with Sherlock Holmes. For two
streets he shuffled along with a bent back and an uncertain foot.
Then, glancing quickly round, he straightened himself out and
burst into a hearty fit of laughter.

"I suppose, Watson," said he, "that you imagine that I have added
opium-smoking to cocaine injections, and all the other little
weaknesses on which you have favoured me with your medical
views."

"I was certainly surprised to find you there."

"But not more so than I to find you."

"I came to find a friend."

"And I to find an enemy."

"An enemy?"

"Yes; one of my natural enemies, or, shall I say, my natural
prey. Briefly, Watson, I am in the midst of a very remarkable
inquiry, and I have hoped to find a clue in the incoherent
ramblings of these sots, as I have done before now. Had I been
recognised in that den my life would not have been worth an
hour's purchase; for I have used it before now for my own
purposes, and the rascally Lascar who runs it has sworn to have
vengeance upon me. There is a trap-door at the back of that
building, near the corner of Paul's Wharf, which could tell some
strange tales of what has passed through it upon the moonless
nights."

"What! You do not mean bodies?"

"Ay, bodies, Watson. We should be rich men if we had 1000 pounds
for every poor devil who has been done to death in that den. It
is the vilest murder-trap on the whole riverside, and I fear that
Neville St. Clair has entered it never to leave it more. But our
trap should be here." He put his two forefingers between his
teeth and whistled shrilly--a signal which was answered by a
similar whistle from the distance, followed shortly by the rattle
of wheels and the clink of horses' hoofs.

"Now, Watson," said Holmes, as a tall dog-cart dashed up through
the gloom, throwing out two golden tunnels of yellow light from
its side lanterns. "You'll come with me, won't you?"

"If I can be of use."

"Oh, a trusty comrade is always of use; and a chronicler still
more so. My room at The Cedars is a double-bedded one."

"The Cedars?"

"Yes; that is Mr. St. Clair's house. I am staying there while I
conduct the inquiry."

"Where is it, then?"

"Near Lee, in Kent. We have a seven-mile drive before us."

"But I am all in the dark."

"Of course you are. You'll know all about it presently. Jump up
here. All right, John; we shall not need you. Here's half a
crown. Look out for me to-morrow, about eleven. Give her her
head. So long, then!"

He flicked the horse with his whip, and we dashed away through
the endless succession of sombre and deserted streets, which
widened gradually, until we were flying across a broad
balustraded bridge, with the murky river flowing sluggishly
beneath us. Beyond lay another dull wilderness of bricks and
mortar, its silence broken only by the heavy, regular footfall of
the policeman, or the songs and shouts of some belated party of
revellers. A dull wrack was drifting slowly across the sky, and a
star or two twinkled dimly here and there through the rifts of
the clouds. Holmes drove in silence, with his head sunk upon his
breast, and the air of a man who is lost in thought, while I sat
beside him, curious to learn what this new quest might be which
seemed to tax his powers so sorely, and yet afraid to break in
upon the current of his thoughts. We had driven several miles,
and were beginning to get to the fringe of the belt of suburban
villas, when he shook himself, shrugged his shoulders, and lit up
his pipe with the air of a man who has satisfied himself that he
is acting for the best.

"You have a grand gift of silence, Watson," said he. "It makes
you quite invaluable as a companion. 'Pon my word, it is a great
thing for me to have someone to talk to, for my own thoughts are
not over-pleasant. I was wondering what I should say to this dear
little woman to-night when she meets me at the door."

"You forget that I know nothing about it."

"I shall just have time to tell you the facts of the case before
we get to Lee. It seems absurdly simple, and yet, somehow I can
get nothing to go upon. There's plenty of thread, no doubt, but I
can't get the end of it into my hand. Now, I'll state the case
clearly and concisely to you, Watson, and maybe you can see a
spark where all is dark to me."

"Proceed, then."

"Some years ago--to be definite, in May, 1884--there came to Lee
a gentleman, Neville St. Clair by name, who appeared to have
plenty of money. He took a large villa, laid out the grounds very
nicely, and lived generally in good style. By degrees he made
friends in the neighbourhood, and in 1887 he married the daughter
of a local brewer, by whom he now has two children. He had no
occupation, but was interested in several companies and went into
town as a rule in the morning, returning by the 5:14 from Cannon
Street every night. Mr. St. Clair is now thirty-seven years of
age, is a man of temperate habits, a good husband, a very
affectionate father, and a man who is popular with all who know
him. I may add that his whole debts at the present moment, as far
as we have been able to ascertain, amount to 88 pounds 10s., while
he has 220 pounds standing to his credit in the Capital and
Counties Bank. There is no reason, therefore, to think that money
troubles have been weighing upon his mind.

"Last Monday Mr. Neville St. Clair went into town rather earlier
than usual, remarking before he started that he had two important
commissions to perform, and that he would bring his little boy
home a box of bricks. Now, by the merest chance, his wife
received a telegram upon this same Monday, very shortly after his
departure, to the effect that a small parcel of considerable
value which she had been expecting was waiting for her at the
offices of the Aberdeen Shipping Company. Now, if you are well up
in your London, you will know that the office of the company is
in Fresno Street, which branches out of Upper Swandam Lane, where
you found me to-night. Mrs. St. Clair had her lunch, started for
the City, did some shopping, proceeded to the company's office,
got her packet, and found herself at exactly 4:35 walking through
Swandam Lane on her way back to the station. Have you followed me
so far?"

"It is very clear."

"If you remember, Monday was an exceedingly hot day, and Mrs. St.
Clair walked slowly, glancing about in the hope of seeing a cab,
as she did not like the neighbourhood in which she found herself.
While she was walking in this way down Swandam Lane, she suddenly
heard an ejaculation or cry, and was struck cold to see her
husband looking down at her and, as it seemed to her, beckoning
to her from a second-floor window. The window was open, and she
distinctly saw his face, which she describes as being terribly
agitated. He waved his hands frantically to her, and then
vanished from the window so suddenly that it seemed to her that
he had been plucked back by some irresistible force from behind.
One singular point which struck her quick feminine eye was that
although he wore some dark coat, such as he had started to town
in, he had on neither collar nor necktie.

"Convinced that something was amiss with him, she rushed down the
steps--for the house was none other than the opium den in which
you found me to-night--and running through the front room she
attempted to ascend the stairs which led to the first floor. At
the foot of the stairs, however, she met this Lascar scoundrel of
whom I have spoken, who thrust her back and, aided by a Dane, who
acts as assistant there, pushed her out into the street. Filled
with the most maddening doubts and fears, she rushed down the
lane and, by rare good-fortune, met in Fresno Street a number of
constables with an inspector, all on their way to their beat. The
inspector and two men accompanied her back, and in spite of the
continued resistance of the proprietor, they made their way to
the room in which Mr. St. Clair had last been seen. There was no
sign of him there. In fact, in the whole of that floor there was
no one to be found save a crippled wretch of hideous aspect, who,
it seems, made his home there. Both he and the Lascar stoutly
swore that no one else had been in the front room during the
afternoon. So determined was their denial that the inspector was
staggered, and had almost come to believe that Mrs. St. Clair had
been deluded when, with a cry, she sprang at a small deal box
which lay upon the table and tore the lid from it. Out there fell
a cascade of children's bricks. It was the toy which he had
promised to bring home.

"This discovery, and the evident confusion which the cripple
showed, made the inspector realise that the matter was serious.
The rooms were carefully examined, and results all pointed to an
abominable crime. The front room was plainly furnished as a
sitting-room and led into a small bedroom, which looked out upon
the back of one of the wharves. Between the wharf and the bedroom
window is a narrow strip, which is dry at low tide but is covered
at high tide with at least four and a half feet of water. The
bedroom window was a broad one and opened from below. On
examination traces of blood were to be seen upon the windowsill,
and several scattered drops were visible upon the wooden floor of
the bedroom. Thrust away behind a curtain in the front room were
all the clothes of Mr. Neville St. Clair, with the exception of
his coat. His boots, his socks, his hat, and his watch--all were
there. There were no signs of violence upon any of these
garments, and there were no other traces of Mr. Neville St.
Clair. Out of the window he must apparently have gone for no
other exit could be discovered, and the ominous bloodstains upon
the sill gave little promise that he could save himself by
swimming, for the tide was at its very highest at the moment of
the tragedy.

"And now as to the villains who seemed to be immediately
implicated in the matter. The Lascar was known to be a man of the
vilest antecedents, but as, by Mrs. St. Clair's story, he was
known to have been at the foot of the stair within a very few
seconds of her husband's appearance at the window, he could
hardly have been more than an accessory to the crime. His defence
was one of absolute ignorance, and he protested that he had no
knowledge as to the doings of Hugh Boone, his lodger, and that he
could not account in any way for the presence of the missing
gentleman's clothes.

"So much for the Lascar manager. Now for the sinister cripple who
lives upon the second floor of the opium den, and who was
certainly the last human being whose eyes rested upon Neville St.
Clair. His name is Hugh Boone, and his hideous face is one which
is familiar to every man who goes much to the City. He is a
professional beggar, though in order to avoid the police
regulations he pretends to a small trade in wax vestas. Some
little distance down Threadneedle Street, upon the left-hand
side, there is, as you may have remarked, a small angle in the
wall. Here it is that this creature takes his daily seat,
cross-legged with his tiny stock of matches on his lap, and as he
is a piteous spectacle a small rain of charity descends into the
greasy leather cap which lies upon the pavement beside him. I
have watched the fellow more than once before ever I thought of
making his professional acquaintance, and I have been surprised
at the harvest which he has reaped in a short time. His
appearance, you see, is so remarkable that no one can pass him
without observing him. A shock of orange hair, a pale face
disfigured by a horrible scar, which, by its contraction, has
turned up the outer edge of his upper lip, a bulldog chin, and a
pair of very penetrating dark eyes, which present a singular
contrast to the colour of his hair, all mark him out from amid
the common crowd of mendicants and so, too, does his wit, for he
is ever ready with a reply to any piece of chaff which may be
thrown at him by the passers-by. This is the man whom we now
learn to have been the lodger at the opium den, and to have been
the last man to see the gentleman of whom we are in quest."

"But a cripple!" said I. "What could he have done single-handed
against a man in the prime of life?"

"He is a cripple in the sense that he walks with a limp; but in
other respects he appears to be a powerful and well-nurtured man.
Surely your medical experience would tell you, Watson, that
weakness in one limb is often compensated for by exceptional
strength in the others."

"Pray continue your narrative."

"Mrs. St. Clair had fainted at the sight of the blood upon the
window, and she was escorted home in a cab by the police, as her
presence could be of no help to them in their investigations.
Inspector Barton, who had charge of the case, made a very careful
examination of the premises, but without finding anything which
threw any light upon the matter. One mistake had been made in not
arresting Boone instantly, as he was allowed some few minutes
during which he might have communicated with his friend the
Lascar, but this fault was soon remedied, and he was seized and
searched, without anything being found which could incriminate
him. There were, it is true, some blood-stains upon his right
shirt-sleeve, but he pointed to his ring-finger, which had been
cut near the nail, and explained that the bleeding came from
there, adding that he had been to the window not long before, and
that the stains which had been observed there came doubtless from
the same source. He denied strenuously having ever seen Mr.
Neville St. Clair and swore that the presence of the clothes in
his room was as much a mystery to him as to the police. As to
Mrs. St. Clair's assertion that she had actually seen her husband
at the window, he declared that she must have been either mad or
dreaming. He was removed, loudly protesting, to the
police-station, while the inspector remained upon the premises in
the hope that the ebbing tide might afford some fresh clue.

"And it did, though they hardly found upon the mud-bank what they
had feared to find. It was Neville St. Clair's coat, and not
Neville St. Clair, which lay uncovered as the tide receded. And
what do you think they found in the pockets?"

"I cannot imagine."

"No, I don't think you would guess. Every pocket stuffed with
pennies and half-pennies--421 pennies and 270 half-pennies. It
was no wonder that it had not been swept away by the tide. But a
human body is a different matter. There is a fierce eddy between
the wharf and the house. It seemed likely enough that the
weighted coat had remained when the stripped body had been sucked
away into the river."

"But I understand that all the other clothes were found in the
room. Would the body be dressed in a coat alone?"

"No, sir, but the facts might be met speciously enough. Suppose
that this man Boone had thrust Neville St. Clair through the
window, there is no human eye which could have seen the deed.
What would he do then? It would of course instantly strike him
that he must get rid of the tell-tale garments. He would seize
the coat, then, and be in the act of throwing it out, when it
would occur to him that it would swim and not sink. He has little
time, for he has heard the scuffle downstairs when the wife tried
to force her way up, and perhaps he has already heard from his
Lascar confederate that the police are hurrying up the street.
There is not an instant to be lost. He rushes to some secret
hoard, where he has accumulated the fruits of his beggary, and he
stuffs all the coins upon which he can lay his hands into the
pockets to make sure of the coat's sinking. He throws it out, and
would have done the same with the other garments had not he heard
the rush of steps below, and only just had time to close the
window when the police appeared."

"It certainly sounds feasible."

"Well, we will take it as a working hypothesis for want of a
better. Boone, as I have told you, was arrested and taken to the
station, but it could not be shown that there had ever before
been anything against him. He had for years been known as a
professional beggar, but his life appeared to have been a very
quiet and innocent one. There the matter stands at present, and
the questions which have to be solved--what Neville St. Clair was
doing in the opium den, what happened to him when there, where is
he now, and what Hugh Boone had to do with his disappearance--are
all as far from a solution as ever. I confess that I cannot
recall any case within my experience which looked at the first
glance so simple and yet which presented such difficulties."

While Sherlock Holmes had been detailing this singular series of
events, we had been whirling through the outskirts of the great
town until the last straggling houses had been left behind, and
we rattled along with a country hedge upon either side of us.
Just as he finished, however, we drove through two scattered
villages, where a few lights still glimmered in the windows.

"We are on the outskirts of Lee," said my companion. "We have
touched on three English counties in our short drive, starting in
Middlesex, passing over an angle of Surrey, and ending in Kent.
See that light among the trees? That is The Cedars, and beside
that lamp sits a woman whose anxious ears have already, I have
little doubt, caught the clink of our horse's feet."

"But why are you not conducting the case from Baker Street?" I
asked.

"Because there are many inquiries which must be made out here.
Mrs. St. Clair has most kindly put two rooms at my disposal, and
you may rest assured that she will have nothing but a welcome for
my friend and colleague. I hate to meet her, Watson, when I have
no news of her husband. Here we are. Whoa, there, whoa!"

We had pulled up in front of a large villa which stood within its
own grounds. A stable-boy had run out to the horse's head, and
springing down, I followed Holmes up the small, winding
gravel-drive which led to the house. As we approached, the door
flew open, and a little blonde woman stood in the opening, clad
in some sort of light mousseline de soie, with a touch of fluffy
pink chiffon at her neck and wrists. She stood with her figure
outlined against the flood of light, one hand upon the door, one
half-raised in her eagerness, her body slightly bent, her head
and face protruded, with eager eyes and parted lips, a standing
question.

"Well?" she cried, "well?" And then, seeing that there were two
of us, she gave a cry of hope which sank into a groan as she saw
that my companion shook his head and shrugged his shoulders.

"No good news?"

"None."

"No bad?"

"No."

"Thank God for that. But come in. You must be weary, for you have
had a long day."

"This is my friend, Dr. Watson. He has been of most vital use to
me in several of my cases, and a lucky chance has made it
possible for me to bring him out and associate him with this
investigation."

"I am delighted to see you," said she, pressing my hand warmly.
"You will, I am sure, forgive anything that may be wanting in our
arrangements, when you consider the blow which has come so
suddenly upon us."

"My dear madam," said I, "I am an old campaigner, and if I were
not I can very well see that no apology is needed. If I can be of
any assistance, either to you or to my friend here, I shall be
indeed happy."

"Now, Mr. Sherlock Holmes," said the lady as we entered a
well-lit dining-room, upon the table of which a cold supper had
been laid out, "I should very much like to ask you one or two
plain questions, to which I beg that you will give a plain
answer."

"Certainly, madam."

"Do not trouble about my feelings. I am not hysterical, nor given
to fainting. I simply wish to hear your real, real opinion."

"Upon what point?"

"In your heart of hearts, do you think that Neville is alive?"

Sherlock Holmes seemed to be embarrassed by the question.
"Frankly, now!" she repeated, standing upon the rug and looking
keenly down at him as he leaned back in a basket-chair.

"Frankly, then, madam, I do not."

"You think that he is dead?"

"I do."

"Murdered?"

"I don't say that. Perhaps."

"And on what day did he meet his death?"

"On Monday."

"Then perhaps, Mr. Holmes, you will be good enough to explain how
it is that I have received a letter from him to-day."

Sherlock Holmes sprang out of his chair as if he had been
galvanised.

"What!" he roared.

"Yes, to-day." She stood smiling, holding up a little slip of
paper in the air.

"May I see it?"

"Certainly."

He snatched it from her in his eagerness, and smoothing it out
upon the table he drew over the lamp and examined it intently. I
had left my chair and was gazing at it over his shoulder. The
envelope was a very coarse one and was stamped with the Gravesend
postmark and with the date of that very day, or rather of the day
before, for it was considerably after midnight.

"Coarse writing," murmured Holmes. "Surely this is not your
husband's writing, madam."

"No, but the enclosure is."

"I perceive also that whoever addressed the envelope had to go
and inquire as to the address."

"How can you tell that?"

"The name, you see, is in perfectly black ink, which has dried
itself. The rest is of the greyish colour, which shows that
blotting-paper has been used. If it had been written straight
off, and then blotted, none would be of a deep black shade. This
man has written the name, and there has then been a pause before
he wrote the address, which can only mean that he was not
familiar with it. It is, of course, a trifle, but there is
nothing so important as trifles. Let us now see the letter. Ha!
there has been an enclosure here!"

"Yes, there was a ring. His signet-ring."

"And you are sure that this is your husband's hand?"

"One of his hands."

"One?"

"His hand when he wrote hurriedly. It is very unlike his usual
writing, and yet I know it well."

"'Dearest do not be frightened. All will come well. There is a
huge error which it may take some little time to rectify.
Wait in patience.--NEVILLE.' Written in pencil upon the fly-leaf
of a book, octavo size, no water-mark. Hum! Posted to-day in
Gravesend by a man with a dirty thumb. Ha! And the flap has been
gummed, if I am not very much in error, by a person who had been
chewing tobacco. And you have no doubt that it is your husband's
hand, madam?"

"None. Neville wrote those words."

"And they were posted to-day at Gravesend. Well, Mrs. St. Clair,
the clouds lighten, though I should not venture to say that the
danger is over."

"But he must be alive, Mr. Holmes."

"Unless this is a clever forgery to put us on the wrong scent.
The ring, after all, proves nothing. It may have been taken from
him."

"No, no; it is, it is his very own writing!"

"Very well. It may, however, have been written on Monday and only
posted to-day."

"That is possible."

"If so, much may have happened between."

"Oh, you must not discourage me, Mr. Holmes. I know that all is
well with him. There is so keen a sympathy between us that I
should know if evil came upon him. On the very day that I saw him
last he cut himself in the bedroom, and yet I in the dining-room
rushed upstairs instantly with the utmost certainty that
something had happened. Do you think that I would respond to such
a trifle and yet be ignorant of his death?"

"I have seen too much not to know that the impression of a woman
may be more valuable than the conclusion of an analytical
reasoner. And in this letter you certainly have a very strong
piece of evidence to corroborate your view. But if your husband
is alive and able to write letters, why should he remain away
from you?"

"I cannot imagine. It is unthinkable."

"And on Monday he made no remarks before leaving you?"

"No."

"And you were surprised to see him in Swandam Lane?"

"Very much so."

"Was the window open?"

"Yes."

"Then he might have called to you?"

"He might."

"He only, as I understand, gave an inarticulate cry?"

"Yes."

"A call for help, you thought?"

"Yes. He waved his hands."

"But it might have been a cry of surprise. Astonishment at the
unexpected sight of you might cause him to throw up his hands?"

"It is possible."

"And you thought he was pulled back?"

"He disappeared so suddenly."

"He might have leaped back. You did not see anyone else in the
room?"

"No, but this horrible man confessed to having been there, and
the Lascar was at the foot of the stairs."

"Quite so. Your husband, as far as you could see, had his
ordinary clothes on?"

"But without his collar or tie. I distinctly saw his bare
throat."

"Had he ever spoken of Swandam Lane?"

"Never."

"Had he ever showed any signs of having taken opium?"

"Never."

"Thank you, Mrs. St. Clair. Those are the principal points about
which I wished to be absolutely clear. We shall now have a little
supper and then retire, for we may have a very busy day
to-morrow."

A large and comfortable double-bedded room had been placed at our
disposal, and I was quickly between the sheets, for I was weary
after my night of adventure. Sherlock Holmes was a man, however,
who, when he had an unsolved problem upon his mind, would go for
days, and even for a week, without rest, turning it over,
rearranging his facts, looking at it from every point of view
until he had either fathomed it or convinced himself that his
data were insufficient. It was soon evident to me that he was now
preparing for an all-night sitting. He took off his coat and
waistcoat, put on a large blue dressing-gown, and then wandered
about the room collecting pillows from his bed and cushions from
the sofa and armchairs. With these he constructed a sort of
Eastern divan, upon which he perched himself cross-legged, with
an ounce of shag tobacco and a box of matches laid out in front
of him. In the dim light of the lamp I saw him sitting there, an
old briar pipe between his lips, his eyes fixed vacantly upon the
corner of the ceiling, the blue smoke curling up from him,
silent, motionless, with the light shining upon his strong-set
aquiline features. So he sat as I dropped off to sleep, and so he
sat when a sudden ejaculation caused me to wake up, and I found
the summer sun shining into the apartment. The pipe was still
between his lips, the smoke still curled upward, and the room was
full of a dense tobacco haze, but nothing remained of the heap of
shag which I had seen upon the previous night.

"Awake, Watson?" he asked.

"Yes."

"Game for a morning drive?"

"Certainly."

"Then dress. No one is stirring yet, but I know where the
stable-boy sleeps, and we shall soon have the trap out." He
chuckled to himself as he spoke, his eyes twinkled, and he seemed
a different man to the sombre thinker of the previous night.

As I dressed I glanced at my watch. It was no wonder that no one
was stirring. It was twenty-five minutes past four. I had hardly
finished when Holmes returned with the news that the boy was
putting in the horse.

"I want to test a little theory of mine," said he, pulling on his
boots. "I think, Watson, that you are now standing in the
presence of one of the most absolute fools in Europe. I deserve
to be kicked from here to Charing Cross. But I think I have the
key of the affair now."

"And where is it?" I asked, smiling.

"In the bathroom," he answered. "Oh, yes, I am not joking," he
continued, seeing my look of incredulity. "I have just been
there, and I have taken it out, and I have got it in this
Gladstone bag. Come on, my boy, and we shall see whether it will
not fit the lock."

We made our way downstairs as quietly as possible, and out into
the bright morning sunshine. In the road stood our horse and
trap, with the half-clad stable-boy waiting at the head. We both
sprang in, and away we dashed down the London Road. A few country
carts were stirring, bearing in vegetables to the metropolis, but
the lines of villas on either side were as silent and lifeless as
some city in a dream.

"It has been in some points a singular case," said Holmes,
flicking the horse on into a gallop. "I confess that I have been
as blind as a mole, but it is better to learn wisdom late than
never to learn it at all."

In town the earliest risers were just beginning to look sleepily
from their windows as we drove through the streets of the Surrey
side. Passing down the Waterloo Bridge Road we crossed over the
river, and dashing up Wellington Street wheeled sharply to the
right and found ourselves in Bow Street. Sherlock Holmes was well
known to the force, and the two constables at the door saluted
him. One of them held the horse's head while the other led us in.

"Who is on duty?" asked Holmes.

"Inspector Bradstreet, sir."

"Ah, Bradstreet, how are you?" A tall, stout official had come
down the stone-flagged passage, in a peaked cap and frogged
jacket. "I wish to have a quiet word with you, Bradstreet."
"Certainly, Mr. Holmes. Step into my room here." It was a small,
office-like room, with a huge ledger upon the table, and a
telephone projecting from the wall. The inspector sat down at his
desk.

"What can I do for you, Mr. Holmes?"

"I called about that beggarman, Boone--the one who was charged
with being concerned in the disappearance of Mr. Neville St.
Clair, of Lee."

"Yes. He was brought up and remanded for further inquiries."

"So I heard. You have him here?"

"In the cells."

"Is he quiet?"

"Oh, he gives no trouble. But he is a dirty scoundrel."

"Dirty?"

"Yes, it is all we can do to make him wash his hands, and his
face is as black as a tinker's. Well, when once his case has been
settled, he will have a regular prison bath; and I think, if you
saw him, you would agree with me that he needed it."

"I should like to see him very much."

"Would you? That is easily done. Come this way. You can leave
your bag."

"No, I think that I'll take it."

"Very good. Come this way, if you please." He led us down a
passage, opened a barred door, passed down a winding stair, and
brought us to a whitewashed corridor with a line of doors on each
side.

"The third on the right is his," said the inspector. "Here it
is!" He quietly shot back a panel in the upper part of the door
and glanced through.

"He is asleep," said he. "You can see him very well."

We both put our eyes to the grating. The prisoner lay with his
face towards us, in a very deep sleep, breathing slowly and
heavily. He was a middle-sized man, coarsely clad as became his
calling, with a coloured shirt protruding through the rent in his
tattered coat. He was, as the inspector had said, extremely
dirty, but the grime which covered his face could not conceal its
repulsive ugliness. A broad wheal from an old scar ran right
across it from eye to chin, and by its contraction had turned up
one side of the upper lip, so that three teeth were exposed in a
perpetual snarl. A shock of very bright red hair grew low over
his eyes and forehead.

"He's a beauty, isn't he?" said the inspector.

"He certainly needs a wash," remarked Holmes. "I had an idea that
he might, and I took the liberty of bringing the tools with me."
He opened the Gladstone bag as he spoke, and took out, to my
astonishment, a very large bath-sponge.

"He! he! You are a funny one," chuckled the inspector.

"Now, if you will have the great goodness to open that door very
quietly, we will soon make him cut a much more respectable
figure."

"Well, I don't know why not," said the inspector. "He doesn't
look a credit to the Bow Street cells, does he?" He slipped his
key into the lock, and we all very quietly entered the cell. The
sleeper half turned, and then settled down once more into a deep
slumber. Holmes stooped to the water-jug, moistened his sponge,
and then rubbed it twice vigorously across and down the
prisoner's face.

"Let me introduce you," he shouted, "to Mr. Neville St. Clair, of
Lee, in the county of Kent."

Never in my life have I seen such a sight. The man's face peeled
off under the sponge like the bark from a tree. Gone was the
coarse brown tint! Gone, too, was the horrid scar which had
seamed it across, and the twisted lip which had given the
repulsive sneer to the face! A twitch brought away the tangled
red hair, and there, sitting up in his bed, was a pale,
sad-faced, refined-looking man, black-haired and smooth-skinned,
rubbing his eyes and staring about him with sleepy bewilderment.
Then suddenly realising the exposure, he broke into a scream and
threw himself down with his face to the pillow.

"Great heavens!" cried the inspector, "it is, indeed, the missing
man. I know him from the photograph."

The prisoner turned with the reckless air of a man who abandons
himself to his destiny. "Be it so," said he. "And pray what am I
charged with?"

"With making away with Mr. Neville St.-- Oh, come, you can't be
charged with that unless they make a case of attempted suicide of
it," said the inspector with a grin. "Well, I have been
twenty-seven years in the force, but this really takes the cake."

"If I am Mr. Neville St. Clair, then it is obvious that no crime
has been committed, and that, therefore, I am illegally
detained."

"No crime, but a very great error has been committed," said
Holmes. "You would have done better to have trusted your wife."

"It was not the wife; it was the children," groaned the prisoner.
"God help me, I would not have them ashamed of their father. My
God! What an exposure! What can I do?"

Sherlock Holmes sat down beside him on the couch and patted him
kindly on the shoulder.

"If you leave it to a court of law to clear the matter up," said
he, "of course you can hardly avoid publicity. On the other hand,
if you convince the police authorities that there is no possible
case against you, I do not know that there is any reason that the
details should find their way into the papers. Inspector
Bradstreet would, I am sure, make notes upon anything which you
might tell us and submit it to the proper authorities. The case
would then never go into court at all."

"God bless you!" cried the prisoner passionately. "I would have
endured imprisonment, ay, even execution, rather than have left
my miserable secret as a family blot to my children.

"You are the first who have ever heard my story. My father was a
schoolmaster in Chesterfield, where I received an excellent
education. I travelled in my youth, took to the stage, and
finally became a reporter on an evening paper in London. One day
my editor wished to have a series of articles upon begging in the
metropolis, and I volunteered to supply them. There was the point
from which all my adventures started. It was only by trying
begging as an amateur that I could get the facts upon which to
base my articles. When an actor I had, of course, learned all the
secrets of making up, and had been famous in the green-room for
my skill. I took advantage now of my attainments. I painted my
face, and to make myself as pitiable as possible I made a good
scar and fixed one side of my lip in a twist by the aid of a
small slip of flesh-coloured plaster. Then with a red head of
hair, and an appropriate dress, I took my station in the business
part of the city, ostensibly as a match-seller but really as a
beggar. For seven hours I plied my trade, and when I returned
home in the evening I found to my surprise that I had received no
less than 26s. 4d.

"I wrote my articles and thought little more of the matter until,
some time later, I backed a bill for a friend and had a writ
served upon me for 25 pounds. I was at my wit's end where to get
the money, but a sudden idea came to me. I begged a fortnight's
grace from the creditor, asked for a holiday from my employers,
and spent the time in begging in the City under my disguise. In
ten days I had the money and had paid the debt.

"Well, you can imagine how hard it was to settle down to arduous
work at 2 pounds a week when I knew that I could earn as much in
a day by smearing my face with a little paint, laying my cap on
the ground, and sitting still. It was a long fight between my
pride and the money, but the dollars won at last, and I threw up
reporting and sat day after day in the corner which I had first
chosen, inspiring pity by my ghastly face and filling my pockets
with coppers. Only one man knew my secret. He was the keeper of a
low den in which I used to lodge in Swandam Lane, where I could
every morning emerge as a squalid beggar and in the evenings
transform myself into a well-dressed man about town. This fellow,
a Lascar, was well paid by me for his rooms, so that I knew that
my secret was safe in his possession.

"Well, very soon I found that I was saving considerable sums of
money. I do not mean that any beggar in the streets of London
could earn 700 pounds a year--which is less than my average
takings--but I had exceptional advantages in my power of making
up, and also in a facility of repartee, which improved by
practice and made me quite a recognised character in the City.
All day a stream of pennies, varied by silver, poured in upon me,
and it was a very bad day in which I failed to take 2 pounds.

"As I grew richer I grew more ambitious, took a house in the
country, and eventually married, without anyone having a
suspicion as to my real occupation. My dear wife knew that I had
business in the City. She little knew what.

"Last Monday I had finished for the day and was dressing in my
room above the opium den when I looked out of my window and saw,
to my horror and astonishment, that my wife was standing in the
street, with her eyes fixed full upon me. I gave a cry of
surprise, threw up my arms to cover my face, and, rushing to my
confidant, the Lascar, entreated him to prevent anyone from
coming up to me. I heard her voice downstairs, but I knew that
she could not ascend. Swiftly I threw off my clothes, pulled on
those of a beggar, and put on my pigments and wig. Even a wife's
eyes could not pierce so complete a disguise. But then it
occurred to me that there might be a search in the room, and that
the clothes might betray me. I threw open the window, reopening
by my violence a small cut which I had inflicted upon myself in
the bedroom that morning. Then I seized my coat, which was
weighted by the coppers which I had just transferred to it from
the leather bag in which I carried my takings. I hurled it out of
the window, and it disappeared into the Thames. The other clothes
would have followed, but at that moment there was a rush of
constables up the stair, and a few minutes after I found, rather,
I confess, to my relief, that instead of being identified as Mr.
Neville St. Clair, I was arrested as his murderer.

"I do not know that there is anything else for me to explain. I
was determined to preserve my disguise as long as possible, and
hence my preference for a dirty face. Knowing that my wife would
be terribly anxious, I slipped off my ring and confided it to the
Lascar at a moment when no constable was watching me, together
with a hurried scrawl, telling her that she had no cause to
fear."

"That note only reached her yesterday," said Holmes.

"Good God! What a week she must have spent!"

"The police have watched this Lascar," said Inspector Bradstreet,
"and I can quite understand that he might find it difficult to
post a letter unobserved. Probably he handed it to some sailor
customer of his, who forgot all about it for some days."

"That was it," said Holmes, nodding approvingly; "I have no doubt
of it. But have you never been prosecuted for begging?"

"Many times; but what was a fine to me?"

"It must stop here, however," said Bradstreet. "If the police are
to hush this thing up, there must be no more of Hugh Boone."

"I have sworn it by the most solemn oaths which a man can take."

"In that case I think that it is probable that no further steps
may be taken. But if you are found again, then all must come out.
I am sure, Mr. Holmes, that we are very much indebted to you for
having cleared the matter up. I wish I knew how you reach your
results."

"I reached this one," said my friend, "by sitting upon five
pillows and consuming an ounce of shag. I think, Watson, that if
we drive to Baker Street we shall just be in time for breakfast."



VII. THE ADVENTURE OF THE BLUE CARBUNCLE

I had called upon my friend Sherlock Holmes upon the second
morning after Christmas, with the intention of wishing him the
compliments of the season. He was lounging upon the sofa in a
purple dressing-gown, a pipe-rack within his reach upon the
right, and a pile of crumpled morning papers, evidently newly
studied, near at hand. Beside the couch was a wooden chair, and
on the angle of the back hung a very seedy and disreputable
hard-felt hat, much the worse for wear, and cracked in several
places. A lens and a forceps lying upon the seat of the chair
suggested that the hat had been suspended in this manner for the
purpose of examination.

"You are engaged," said I; "perhaps I interrupt you."

"Not at all. I am glad to have a friend with whom I can discuss
my results. The matter is a perfectly trivial one"--he jerked his
thumb in the direction of the old hat--"but there are points in
connection with it which are not entirely devoid of interest and
even of instruction."

I seated myself in his armchair and warmed my hands before his
crackling fire, for a sharp frost had set in, and the windows
were thick with the ice crystals. "I suppose," I remarked, "that,
homely as it looks, this thing has some deadly story linked on to
it--that it is the clue which will guide you in the solution of
some mystery and the punishment of some crime."

"No, no. No crime," said Sherlock Holmes, laughing. "Only one of
those whimsical little incidents which will happen when you have
four million human beings all jostling each other within the
space of a few square miles. Amid the action and reaction of so
dense a swarm of humanity, every possible combination of events
may be expected to take place, and many a little problem will be
presented which may be striking and bizarre without being
criminal. We have already had experience of such."

"So much so," I remarked, "that of the last six cases which I
have added to my notes, three have been entirely free of any
legal crime."

"Precisely. You allude to my attempt to recover the Irene Adler
papers, to the singular case of Miss Mary Sutherland, and to the
adventure of the man with the twisted lip. Well, I have no doubt
that this small matter will fall into the same innocent category.
You know Peterson, the commissionaire?"

"Yes."

"It is to him that this trophy belongs."

"It is his hat."

"No, no, he found it. Its owner is unknown. I beg that you will
look upon it not as a battered billycock but as an intellectual
problem. And, first, as to how it came here. It arrived upon
Christmas morning, in company with a good fat goose, which is, I
have no doubt, roasting at this moment in front of Peterson's
fire. The facts are these: about four o'clock on Christmas
morning, Peterson, who, as you know, is a very honest fellow, was
returning from some small jollification and was making his way
homeward down Tottenham Court Road. In front of him he saw, in
the gaslight, a tallish man, walking with a slight stagger, and
carrying a white goose slung over his shoulder. As he reached the
corner of Goodge Street, a row broke out between this stranger
and a little knot of roughs. One of the latter knocked off the
man's hat, on which he raised his stick to defend himself and,
swinging it over his head, smashed the shop window behind him.
Peterson had rushed forward to protect the stranger from his
assailants; but the man, shocked at having broken the window, and
seeing an official-looking person in uniform rushing towards him,
dropped his goose, took to his heels, and vanished amid the
labyrinth of small streets which lie at the back of Tottenham
Court Road. The roughs had also fled at the appearance of
Peterson, so that he was left in possession of the field of
battle, and also of the spoils of victory in the shape of this
battered hat and a most unimpeachable Christmas goose."

"Which surely he restored to their owner?"

"My dear fellow, there lies the problem. It is true that 'For
Mrs. Henry Baker' was printed upon a small card which was tied to
the bird's left leg, and it is also true that the initials 'H.
B.' are legible upon the lining of this hat, but as there are
some thousands of Bakers, and some hundreds of Henry Bakers in
this city of ours, it is not easy to restore lost property to any
one of them."

"What, then, did Peterson do?"

"He brought round both hat and goose to me on Christmas morning,
knowing that even the smallest problems are of interest to me.
The goose we retained until this morning, when there were signs
that, in spite of the slight frost, it would be well that it
should be eaten without unnecessary delay. Its finder has carried
it off, therefore, to fulfil the ultimate destiny of a goose,
while I continue to retain the hat of the unknown gentleman who
lost his Christmas dinner."

"Did he not advertise?"

"No."

"Then, what clue could you have as to his identity?"

"Only as much as we can deduce."

"From his hat?"

"Precisely."

"But you are joking. What can you gather from this old battered
felt?"

"Here is my lens. You know my methods. What can you gather
yourself as to the individuality of the man who has worn this
article?"

I took the tattered object in my hands and turned it over rather
ruefully. It was a very ordinary black hat of the usual round
shape, hard and much the worse for wear. The lining had been of
red silk, but was a good deal discoloured. There was no maker's
name; but, as Holmes had remarked, the initials "H. B." were
scrawled upon one side. It was pierced in the brim for a
hat-securer, but the elastic was missing. For the rest, it was
cracked, exceedingly dusty, and spotted in several places,
although there seemed to have been some attempt to hide the
discoloured patches by smearing them with ink.

"I can see nothing," said I, handing it back to my friend.

"On the contrary, Watson, you can see everything. You fail,
however, to reason from what you see. You are too timid in
drawing your inferences."

"Then, pray tell me what it is that you can infer from this hat?"

He picked it up and gazed at it in the peculiar introspective
fashion which was characteristic of him. "It is perhaps less
suggestive than it might have been," he remarked, "and yet there
are a few inferences which are very distinct, and a few others
which represent at least a strong balance of probability. That
the man was highly intellectual is of course obvious upon the
face of it, and also that he was fairly well-to-do within the
last three years, although he has now fallen upon evil days. He
had foresight, but has less now than formerly, pointing to a
moral retrogression, which, when taken with the decline of his
fortunes, seems to indicate some evil influence, probably drink,
at work upon him. This may account also for the obvious fact that
his wife has ceased to love him."

"My dear Holmes!"

"He has, however, retained some degree of self-respect," he
continued, disregarding my remonstrance. "He is a man who leads a
sedentary life, goes out little, is out of training entirely, is
middle-aged, has grizzled hair which he has had cut within the
last few days, and which he anoints with lime-cream. These are
the more patent facts which are to be deduced from his hat. Also,
by the way, that it is extremely improbable that he has gas laid
on in his house."

"You are certainly joking, Holmes."

"Not in the least. Is it possible that even now, when I give you
these results, you are unable to see how they are attained?"

"I have no doubt that I am very stupid, but I must confess that I
am unable to follow you. For example, how did you deduce that
this man was intellectual?"

For answer Holmes clapped the hat upon his head. It came right
over the forehead and settled upon the bridge of his nose. "It is
a question of cubic capacity," said he; "a man with so large a
brain must have something in it."

"The decline of his fortunes, then?"

"This hat is three years old. These flat brims curled at the edge
came in then. It is a hat of the very best quality. Look at the
band of ribbed silk and the excellent lining. If this man could
afford to buy so expensive a hat three years ago, and has had no
hat since, then he has assuredly gone down in the world."

"Well, that is clear enough, certainly. But how about the
foresight and the moral retrogression?"

Sherlock Holmes laughed. "Here is the foresight," said he putting
his finger upon the little disc and loop of the hat-securer.
"They are never sold upon hats. If this man ordered one, it is a
sign of a certain amount of foresight, since he went out of his
way to take this precaution against the wind. But since we see
that he has broken the elastic and has not troubled to replace
it, it is obvious that he has less foresight now than formerly,
which is a distinct proof of a weakening nature. On the other
hand, he has endeavoured to conceal some of these stains upon the
felt by daubing them with ink, which is a sign that he has not
entirely lost his self-respect."

"Your reasoning is certainly plausible."

"The further points, that he is middle-aged, that his hair is
grizzled, that it has been recently cut, and that he uses
lime-cream, are all to be gathered from a close examination of the
lower part of the lining. The lens discloses a large number of
hair-ends, clean cut by the scissors of the barber. They all
appear to be adhesive, and there is a distinct odour of
lime-cream. This dust, you will observe, is not the gritty, grey
dust of the street but the fluffy brown dust of the house,
showing that it has been hung up indoors most of the time, while
the marks of moisture upon the inside are proof positive that the
wearer perspired very freely, and could therefore, hardly be in
the best of training."

"But his wife--you said that she had ceased to love him."

"This hat has not been brushed for weeks. When I see you, my dear
Watson, with a week's accumulation of dust upon your hat, and
when your wife allows you to go out in such a state, I shall fear
that you also have been unfortunate enough to lose your wife's
affection."

"But he might be a bachelor."

"Nay, he was bringing home the goose as a peace-offering to his
wife. Remember the card upon the bird's leg."

"You have an answer to everything. But how on earth do you deduce
that the gas is not laid on in his house?"

"One tallow stain, or even two, might come by chance; but when I
see no less than five, I think that there can be little doubt
that the individual must be brought into frequent contact with
burning tallow--walks upstairs at night probably with his hat in
one hand and a guttering candle in the other. Anyhow, he never
got tallow-stains from a gas-jet. Are you satisfied?"

"Well, it is very ingenious," said I, laughing; "but since, as
you said just now, there has been no crime committed, and no harm
done save the loss of a goose, all this seems to be rather a
waste of energy."

Sherlock Holmes had opened his mouth to reply, when the door flew
open, and Peterson, the commissionaire, rushed into the apartment
with flushed cheeks and the face of a man who is dazed with
astonishment.

"The goose, Mr. Holmes! The goose, sir!" he gasped.

"Eh? What of it, then? Has it returned to life and flapped off
through the kitchen window?" Holmes twisted himself round upon
the sofa to get a fairer view of the man's excited face.

"See here, sir! See what my wife found in its crop!" He held out
his hand and displayed upon the centre of the palm a brilliantly
scintillating blue stone, rather smaller than a bean in size, but
of such purity and radiance that it twinkled like an electric
point in the dark hollow of his hand.

Sherlock Holmes sat up with a whistle. "By Jove, Peterson!" said
he, "this is treasure trove indeed. I suppose you know what you
have got?"

"A diamond, sir? A precious stone. It cuts into glass as though
it were putty."

"It's more than a precious stone. It is the precious stone."

"Not the Countess of Morcar's blue carbuncle!" I ejaculated.

"Precisely so. I ought to know its size and shape, seeing that I
have read the advertisement about it in The Times every day
lately. It is absolutely unique, and its value can only be
conjectured, but the reward offered of 1000 pounds is certainly
not within a twentieth part of the market price."

"A thousand pounds! Great Lord of mercy!" The commissionaire
plumped down into a chair and stared from one to the other of us.

"That is the reward, and I have reason to know that there are
sentimental considerations in the background which would induce
the Countess to part with half her fortune if she could but
recover the gem."

"It was lost, if I remember aright, at the Hotel Cosmopolitan," I
remarked.

"Precisely so, on December 22nd, just five days ago. John Horner,
a plumber, was accused of having abstracted it from the lady's
jewel-case. The evidence against him was so strong that the case
has been referred to the Assizes. I have some account of the
matter here, I believe." He rummaged amid his newspapers,
glancing over the dates, until at last he smoothed one out,
doubled it over, and read the following paragraph:

"Hotel Cosmopolitan Jewel Robbery. John Horner, 26, plumber, was
brought up upon the charge of having upon the 22nd inst.,
abstracted from the jewel-case of the Countess of Morcar the
valuable gem known as the blue carbuncle. James Ryder,
upper-attendant at the hotel, gave his evidence to the effect
that he had shown Horner up to the dressing-room of the Countess
of Morcar upon the day of the robbery in order that he might
solder the second bar of the grate, which was loose. He had
remained with Horner some little time, but had finally been
called away. On returning, he found that Horner had disappeared,
that the bureau had been forced open, and that the small morocco
casket in which, as it afterwards transpired, the Countess was
accustomed to keep her jewel, was lying empty upon the
dressing-table. Ryder instantly gave the alarm, and Horner was
arrested the same evening; but the stone could not be found
either upon his person or in his rooms. Catherine Cusack, maid to
the Countess, deposed to having heard Ryder's cry of dismay on
discovering the robbery, and to having rushed into the room,
where she found matters as described by the last witness.
Inspector Bradstreet, B division, gave evidence as to the arrest
of Horner, who struggled frantically, and protested his innocence
in the strongest terms. Evidence of a previous conviction for
robbery having been given against the prisoner, the magistrate
refused to deal summarily with the offence, but referred it to
the Assizes. Horner, who had shown signs of intense emotion
during the proceedings, fainted away at the conclusion and was
carried out of court."

"Hum! So much for the police-court," said Holmes thoughtfully,
tossing aside the paper. "The question for us now to solve is the
sequence of events leading from a rifled jewel-case at one end to
the crop of a goose in Tottenham Court Road at the other. You
see, Watson, our little deductions have suddenly assumed a much
more important and less innocent aspect. Here is the stone; the
stone came from the goose, and the goose came from Mr. Henry
Baker, the gentleman with the bad hat and all the other
characteristics with which I have bored you. So now we must set
ourselves very seriously to finding this gentleman and
ascertaining what part he has played in this little mystery. To
do this, we must try the simplest means first, and these lie
undoubtedly in an advertisement in all the evening papers. If
this fail, I shall have recourse to other methods."

"What will you say?"

"Give me a pencil and that slip of paper. Now, then: 'Found at
the corner of Goodge Street, a goose and a black felt hat. Mr.
Henry Baker can have the same by applying at 6:30 this evening at
221B, Baker Street.' That is clear and concise."

"Very. But will he see it?"

"Well, he is sure to keep an eye on the papers, since, to a poor
man, the loss was a heavy one. He was clearly so scared by his
mischance in breaking the window and by the approach of Peterson
that he thought of nothing but flight, but since then he must
have bitterly regretted the impulse which caused him to drop his
bird. Then, again, the introduction of his name will cause him to
see it, for everyone who knows him will direct his attention to
it. Here you are, Peterson, run down to the advertising agency
and have this put in the evening papers."

"In which, sir?"

"Oh, in the Globe, Star, Pall Mall, St. James's, Evening News,
Standard, Echo, and any others that occur to you."

"Very well, sir. And this stone?"

"Ah, yes, I shall keep the stone. Thank you. And, I say,
Peterson, just buy a goose on your way back and leave it here
with me, for we must have one to give to this gentleman in place
of the one which your family is now devouring."

When the commissionaire had gone, Holmes took up the stone and
held it against the light. "It's a bonny thing," said he. "Just
see how it glints and sparkles. Of course it is a nucleus and
focus of crime. Every good stone is. They are the devil's pet
baits. In the larger and older jewels every facet may stand for a
bloody deed. This stone is not yet twenty years old. It was found
in the banks of the Amoy River in southern China and is remarkable
in having every characteristic of the carbuncle, save that it is
blue in shade instead of ruby red. In spite of its youth, it has
already a sinister history. There have been two murders, a
vitriol-throwing, a suicide, and several robberies brought about
for the sake of this forty-grain weight of crystallised charcoal.
Who would think that so pretty a toy would be a purveyor to the
gallows and the prison? I'll lock it up in my strong box now and
drop a line to the Countess to say that we have it."

"Do you think that this man Horner is innocent?"

"I cannot tell."

"Well, then, do you imagine that this other one, Henry Baker, had
anything to do with the matter?"

"It is, I think, much more likely that Henry Baker is an
absolutely innocent man, who had no idea that the bird which he
was carrying was of considerably more value than if it were made
of solid gold. That, however, I shall determine by a very simple
test if we have an answer to our advertisement."

"And you can do nothing until then?"

"Nothing."

"In that case I shall continue my professional round. But I shall
come back in the evening at the hour you have mentioned, for I
should like to see the solution of so tangled a business."

"Very glad to see you. I dine at seven. There is a woodcock, I
believe. By the way, in view of recent occurrences, perhaps I
ought to ask Mrs. Hudson to examine its crop."

I had been delayed at a case, and it was a little after half-past
six when I found myself in Baker Street once more. As I
approached the house I saw a tall man in a Scotch bonnet with a
coat which was buttoned up to his chin waiting outside in the
bright semicircle which was thrown from the fanlight. Just as I
arrived the door was opened, and we were shown up together to
Holmes' room.

"Mr. Henry Baker, I believe," said he, rising from his armchair
and greeting his visitor with the easy air of geniality which he
could so readily assume. "Pray take this chair by the fire, Mr.
Baker. It is a cold night, and I observe that your circulation is
more adapted for summer than for winter. Ah, Watson, you have
just come at the right time. Is that your hat, Mr. Baker?"

"Yes, sir, that is undoubtedly my hat."

He was a large man with rounded shoulders, a massive head, and a
broad, intelligent face, sloping down to a pointed beard of
grizzled brown. A touch of red in nose and cheeks, with a slight
tremor of his extended hand, recalled Holmes' surmise as to his
habits. His rusty black frock-coat was buttoned right up in
front, with the collar turned up, and his lank wrists protruded
from his sleeves without a sign of cuff or shirt. He spoke in a
slow staccato fashion, choosing his words with care, and gave the
impression generally of a man of learning and letters who had had
ill-usage at the hands of fortune.

"We have retained these things for some days," said Holmes,
"because we expected to see an advertisement from you giving your
address. I am at a loss to know now why you did not advertise."

Our visitor gave a rather shamefaced laugh. "Shillings have not
been so plentiful with me as they once were," he remarked. "I had
no doubt that the gang of roughs who assaulted me had carried off
both my hat and the bird. I did not care to spend more money in a
hopeless attempt at recovering them."

"Very naturally. By the way, about the bird, we were compelled to
eat it."

"To eat it!" Our visitor half rose from his chair in his
excitement.

"Yes, it would have been of no use to anyone had we not done so.
But I presume that this other goose upon the sideboard, which is
about the same weight and perfectly fresh, will answer your
purpose equally well?"

"Oh, certainly, certainly," answered Mr. Baker with a sigh of
relief.

"Of course, we still have the feathers, legs, crop, and so on of
your own bird, so if you wish--"

The man burst into a hearty laugh. "They might be useful to me as
relics of my adventure," said he, "but beyond that I can hardly
see what use the disjecta membra of my late acquaintance are
going to be to me. No, sir, I think that, with your permission, I
will confine my attentions to the excellent bird which I perceive
upon the sideboard."

Sherlock Holmes glanced sharply across at me with a slight shrug
of his shoulders.

"There is your hat, then, and there your bird," said he. "By the
way, would it bore you to tell me where you got the other one
from? I am somewhat of a fowl fancier, and I have seldom seen a
better grown goose."

"Certainly, sir," said Baker, who had risen and tucked his newly
gained property under his arm. "There are a few of us who
frequent the Alpha Inn, near the Museum--we are to be found in
the Museum itself during the day, you understand. This year our
good host, Windigate by name, instituted a goose club, by which,
on consideration of some few pence every week, we were each to
receive a bird at Christmas. My pence were duly paid, and the
rest is familiar to you. I am much indebted to you, sir, for a
Scotch bonnet is fitted neither to my years nor my gravity." With
a comical pomposity of manner he bowed solemnly to both of us and
strode off upon his way.

"So much for Mr. Henry Baker," said Holmes when he had closed the
door behind him. "It is quite certain that he knows nothing
whatever about the matter. Are you hungry, Watson?"

"Not particularly."

"Then I suggest that we turn our dinner into a supper and follow
up this clue while it is still hot."

"By all means."

It was a bitter night, so we drew on our ulsters and wrapped
cravats about our throats. Outside, the stars were shining coldly
in a cloudless sky, and the breath of the passers-by blew out
into smoke like so many pistol shots. Our footfalls rang out
crisply and loudly as we swung through the doctors' quarter,
Wimpole Street, Harley Street, and so through Wigmore Street into
Oxford Street. In a quarter of an hour we were in Bloomsbury at
the Alpha Inn, which is a small public-house at the corner of one
of the streets which runs down into Holborn. Holmes pushed open
the door of the private bar and ordered two glasses of beer from
the ruddy-faced, white-aproned landlord.

"Your beer should be excellent if it is as good as your geese,"
said he.

"My geese!" The man seemed surprised.

"Yes. I was speaking only half an hour ago to Mr. Henry Baker,
who was a member of your goose club."

"Ah! yes, I see. But you see, sir, them's not our geese."

"Indeed! Whose, then?"

"Well, I got the two dozen from a salesman in Covent Garden."

"Indeed? I know some of them. Which was it?"

"Breckinridge is his name."

"Ah! I don't know him. Well, here's your good health landlord,
and prosperity to your house. Good-night."

"Now for Mr. Breckinridge," he continued, buttoning up his coat
as we came out into the frosty air. "Remember, Watson that though
we have so homely a thing as a goose at one end of this chain, we
have at the other a man who will certainly get seven years' penal
servitude unless we can establish his innocence. It is possible
that our inquiry may but confirm his guilt; but, in any case, we
have a line of investigation which has been missed by the police,
and which a singular chance has placed in our hands. Let us
follow it out to the bitter end. Faces to the south, then, and
quick march!"

We passed across Holborn, down Endell Street, and so through a
zigzag of slums to Covent Garden Market. One of the largest
stalls bore the name of Breckinridge upon it, and the proprietor
a horsey-looking man, with a sharp face and trim side-whiskers was
helping a boy to put up the shutters.

"Good-evening. It's a cold night," said Holmes.

The salesman nodded and shot a questioning glance at my
companion.

"Sold out of geese, I see," continued Holmes, pointing at the
bare slabs of marble.

"Let you have five hundred to-morrow morning."

"That's no good."

"Well, there are some on the stall with the gas-flare."

"Ah, but I was recommended to you."

"Who by?"

"The landlord of the Alpha."

"Oh, yes; I sent him a couple of dozen."

"Fine birds they were, too. Now where did you get them from?"

To my surprise the question provoked a burst of anger from the
salesman.

"Now, then, mister," said he, with his head cocked and his arms
akimbo, "what are you driving at? Let's have it straight, now."

"It is straight enough. I should like to know who sold you the
geese which you supplied to the Alpha."

"Well then, I shan't tell you. So now!"

"Oh, it is a matter of no importance; but I don't know why you
should be so warm over such a trifle."

"Warm! You'd be as warm, maybe, if you were as pestered as I am.
When I pay good money for a good article there should be an end
of the business; but it's 'Where are the geese?' and 'Who did you
sell the geese to?' and 'What will you take for the geese?' One
would think they were the only geese in the world, to hear the
fuss that is made over them."

"Well, I have no connection with any other people who have been
making inquiries," said Holmes carelessly. "If you won't tell us
the bet is off, that is all. But I'm always ready to back my
opinion on a matter of fowls, and I have a fiver on it that the
bird I ate is country bred."

"Well, then, you've lost your fiver, for it's town bred," snapped
the salesman.

"It's nothing of the kind."

"I say it is."

"I don't believe it."

"D'you think you know more about fowls than I, who have handled
them ever since I was a nipper? I tell you, all those birds that
went to the Alpha were town bred."

"You'll never persuade me to believe that."

"Will you bet, then?"

"It's merely taking your money, for I know that I am right. But
I'll have a sovereign on with you, just to teach you not to be
obstinate."

The salesman chuckled grimly. "Bring me the books, Bill," said
he.

The small boy brought round a small thin volume and a great
greasy-backed one, laying them out together beneath the hanging
lamp.

"Now then, Mr. Cocksure," said the salesman, "I thought that I
was out of geese, but before I finish you'll find that there is
still one left in my shop. You see this little book?"

"Well?"

"That's the list of the folk from whom I buy. D'you see? Well,
then, here on this page are the country folk, and the numbers
after their names are where their accounts are in the big ledger.
Now, then! You see this other page in red ink? Well, that is a
list of my town suppliers. Now, look at that third name. Just
read it out to me."

"Mrs. Oakshott, 117, Brixton Road--249," read Holmes.

"Quite so. Now turn that up in the ledger."

Holmes turned to the page indicated. "Here you are, 'Mrs.
Oakshott, 117, Brixton Road, egg and poultry supplier.'"

"Now, then, what's the last entry?"

"'December 22nd. Twenty-four geese at 7s. 6d.'"

"Quite so. There you are. And underneath?"

"'Sold to Mr. Windigate of the Alpha, at 12s.'"

"What have you to say now?"

Sherlock Holmes looked deeply chagrined. He drew a sovereign from
his pocket and threw it down upon the slab, turning away with the
air of a man whose disgust is too deep for words. A few yards off
he stopped under a lamp-post and laughed in the hearty, noiseless
fashion which was peculiar to him.

"When you see a man with whiskers of that cut and the 'Pink 'un'
protruding out of his pocket, you can always draw him by a bet,"
said he. "I daresay that if I had put 100 pounds down in front of
him, that man would not have given me such complete information
as was drawn from him by the idea that he was doing me on a
wager. Well, Watson, we are, I fancy, nearing the end of our
quest, and the only point which remains to be determined is
whether we should go on to this Mrs. Oakshott to-night, or
whether we should reserve it for to-morrow. It is clear from what
that surly fellow said that there are others besides ourselves
who are anxious about the matter, and I should--"

His remarks were suddenly cut short by a loud hubbub which broke
out from the stall which we had just left. Turning round we saw a
little rat-faced fellow standing in the centre of the circle of
yellow light which was thrown by the swinging lamp, while
Breckinridge, the salesman, framed in the door of his stall, was
shaking his fists fiercely at the cringing figure.

"I've had enough of you and your geese," he shouted. "I wish you
were all at the devil together. If you come pestering me any more
with your silly talk I'll set the dog at you. You bring Mrs.
Oakshott here and I'll answer her, but what have you to do with
it? Did I buy the geese off you?"

"No; but one of them was mine all the same," whined the little
man.

"Well, then, ask Mrs. Oakshott for it."

"She told me to ask you."

"Well, you can ask the King of Proosia, for all I care. I've had
enough of it. Get out of this!" He rushed fiercely forward, and
the inquirer flitted away into the darkness.

"Ha! this may save us a visit to Brixton Road," whispered Holmes.
"Come with me, and we will see what is to be made of this
fellow." Striding through the scattered knots of people who
lounged round the flaring stalls, my companion speedily overtook
the little man and touched him upon the shoulder. He sprang
round, and I could see in the gas-light that every vestige of
colour had been driven from his face.

"Who are you, then? What do you want?" he asked in a quavering
voice.

"You will excuse me," said Holmes blandly, "but I could not help
overhearing the questions which you put to the salesman just now.
I think that I could be of assistance to you."

"You? Who are you? How could you know anything of the matter?"

"My name is Sherlock Holmes. It is my business to know what other
people don't know."

"But you can know nothing of this?"

"Excuse me, I know everything of it. You are endeavouring to
trace some geese which were sold by Mrs. Oakshott, of Brixton
Road, to a salesman named Breckinridge, by him in turn to Mr.
Windigate, of the Alpha, and by him to his club, of which Mr.
Henry Baker is a member."

"Oh, sir, you are the very man whom I have longed to meet," cried
the little fellow with outstretched hands and quivering fingers.
"I can hardly explain to you how interested I am in this matter."

Sherlock Holmes hailed a four-wheeler which was passing. "In that
case we had better discuss it in a cosy room rather than in this
wind-swept market-place," said he. "But pray tell me, before we
go farther, who it is that I have the pleasure of assisting."

The man hesitated for an instant. "My name is John Robinson," he
answered with a sidelong glance.

"No, no; the real name," said Holmes sweetly. "It is always
awkward doing business with an alias."

A flush sprang to the white cheeks of the stranger. "Well then,"
said he, "my real name is James Ryder."

"Precisely so. Head attendant at the Hotel Cosmopolitan. Pray
step into the cab, and I shall soon be able to tell you
everything which you would wish to know."

The little man stood glancing from one to the other of us with
half-frightened, half-hopeful eyes, as one who is not sure
whether he is on the verge of a windfall or of a catastrophe.
Then he stepped into the cab, and in half an hour we were back in
the sitting-room at Baker Street. Nothing had been said during
our drive, but the high, thin breathing of our new companion, and
the claspings and unclaspings of his hands, spoke of the nervous
tension within him.

"Here we are!" said Holmes cheerily as we filed into the room.
"The fire looks very seasonable in this weather. You look cold,
Mr. Ryder. Pray take the basket-chair. I will just put on my
slippers before we settle this little matter of yours. Now, then!
You want to know what became of those geese?"

"Yes, sir."

"Or rather, I fancy, of that goose. It was one bird, I imagine in
which you were interested--white, with a black bar across the
tail."

Ryder quivered with emotion. "Oh, sir," he cried, "can you tell
me where it went to?"

"It came here."

"Here?"

"Yes, and a most remarkable bird it proved. I don't wonder that
you should take an interest in it. It laid an egg after it was
dead--the bonniest, brightest little blue egg that ever was seen.
I have it here in my museum."

Our visitor staggered to his feet and clutched the mantelpiece
with his right hand. Holmes unlocked his strong-box and held up
the blue carbuncle, which shone out like a star, with a cold,
brilliant, many-pointed radiance. Ryder stood glaring with a
drawn face, uncertain whether to claim or to disown it.

"The game's up, Ryder," said Holmes quietly. "Hold up, man, or
you'll be into the fire! Give him an arm back into his chair,
Watson. He's not got blood enough to go in for felony with
impunity. Give him a dash of brandy. So! Now he looks a little
more human. What a shrimp it is, to be sure!"

For a moment he had staggered and nearly fallen, but the brandy
brought a tinge of colour into his cheeks, and he sat staring
with frightened eyes at his accuser.

"I have almost every link in my hands, and all the proofs which I
could possibly need, so there is little which you need tell me.
Still, that little may as well be cleared up to make the case
complete. You had heard, Ryder, of this blue stone of the
Countess of Morcar's?"

"It was Catherine Cusack who told me of it," said he in a
crackling voice.

"I see--her ladyship's waiting-maid. Well, the temptation of
sudden wealth so easily acquired was too much for you, as it has
been for better men before you; but you were not very scrupulous
in the means you used. It seems to me, Ryder, that there is the
making of a very pretty villain in you. You knew that this man
Horner, the plumber, had been concerned in some such matter
before, and that suspicion would rest the more readily upon him.
What did you do, then? You made some small job in my lady's
room--you and your confederate Cusack--and you managed that he
should be the man sent for. Then, when he had left, you rifled
the jewel-case, raised the alarm, and had this unfortunate man
arrested. You then--"

Ryder threw himself down suddenly upon the rug and clutched at my
companion's knees. "For God's sake, have mercy!" he shrieked.
"Think of my father! Of my mother! It would break their hearts. I
never went wrong before! I never will again. I swear it. I'll
swear it on a Bible. Oh, don't bring it into court! For Christ's
sake, don't!"

"Get back into your chair!" said Holmes sternly. "It is very well
to cringe and crawl now, but you thought little enough of this
poor Horner in the dock for a crime of which he knew nothing."

"I will fly, Mr. Holmes. I will leave the country, sir. Then the
charge against him will break down."

"Hum! We will talk about that. And now let us hear a true account
of the next act. How came the stone into the goose, and how came
the goose into the open market? Tell us the truth, for there lies
your only hope of safety."

Ryder passed his tongue over his parched lips. "I will tell you
it just as it happened, sir," said he. "When Horner had been
arrested, it seemed to me that it would be best for me to get
away with the stone at once, for I did not know at what moment
the police might not take it into their heads to search me and my
room. There was no place about the hotel where it would be safe.
I went out, as if on some commission, and I made for my sister's
house. She had married a man named Oakshott, and lived in Brixton
Road, where she fattened fowls for the market. All the way there
every man I met seemed to me to be a policeman or a detective;
and, for all that it was a cold night, the sweat was pouring down
my face before I came to the Brixton Road. My sister asked me
what was the matter, and why I was so pale; but I told her that I
had been upset by the jewel robbery at the hotel. Then I went
into the back yard and smoked a pipe and wondered what it would
be best to do.

"I had a friend once called Maudsley, who went to the bad, and
has just been serving his time in Pentonville. One day he had met
me, and fell into talk about the ways of thieves, and how they
could get rid of what they stole. I knew that he would be true to
me, for I knew one or two things about him; so I made up my mind
to go right on to Kilburn, where he lived, and take him into my
confidence. He would show me how to turn the stone into money.
But how to get to him in safety? I thought of the agonies I had
gone through in coming from the hotel. I might at any moment be
seized and searched, and there would be the stone in my waistcoat
pocket. I was leaning against the wall at the time and looking at
the geese which were waddling about round my feet, and suddenly
an idea came into my head which showed me how I could beat the
best detective that ever lived.

"My sister had told me some weeks before that I might have the
pick of her geese for a Christmas present, and I knew that she
was always as good as her word. I would take my goose now, and in
it I would carry my stone to Kilburn. There was a little shed in
the yard, and behind this I drove one of the birds--a fine big
one, white, with a barred tail. I caught it, and prying its bill
open, I thrust the stone down its throat as far as my finger
could reach. The bird gave a gulp, and I felt the stone pass
along its gullet and down into its crop. But the creature flapped
and struggled, and out came my sister to know what was the
matter. As I turned to speak to her the brute broke loose and
fluttered off among the others.

"'Whatever were you doing with that bird, Jem?' says she.

"'Well,' said I, 'you said you'd give me one for Christmas, and I
was feeling which was the fattest.'

"'Oh,' says she, 'we've set yours aside for you--Jem's bird, we
call it. It's the big white one over yonder. There's twenty-six
of them, which makes one for you, and one for us, and two dozen
for the market.'

"'Thank you, Maggie,' says I; 'but if it is all the same to you,
I'd rather have that one I was handling just now.'

"'The other is a good three pound heavier,' said she, 'and we
fattened it expressly for you.'

"'Never mind. I'll have the other, and I'll take it now,' said I.

"'Oh, just as you like,' said she, a little huffed. 'Which is it
you want, then?'

"'That white one with the barred tail, right in the middle of the
flock.'

"'Oh, very well. Kill it and take it with you.'

"Well, I did what she said, Mr. Holmes, and I carried the bird
all the way to Kilburn. I told my pal what I had done, for he was
a man that it was easy to tell a thing like that to. He laughed
until he choked, and we got a knife and opened the goose. My
heart turned to water, for there was no sign of the stone, and I
knew that some terrible mistake had occurred. I left the bird,
rushed back to my sister's, and hurried into the back yard. There
was not a bird to be seen there.

"'Where are they all, Maggie?' I cried.

"'Gone to the dealer's, Jem.'

"'Which dealer's?'

"'Breckinridge, of Covent Garden.'

"'But was there another with a barred tail?' I asked, 'the same
as the one I chose?'

"'Yes, Jem; there were two barred-tailed ones, and I could never
tell them apart.'

"Well, then, of course I saw it all, and I ran off as hard as my
feet would carry me to this man Breckinridge; but he had sold the
lot at once, and not one word would he tell me as to where they
had gone. You heard him yourselves to-night. Well, he has always
answered me like that. My sister thinks that I am going mad.
Sometimes I think that I am myself. And now--and now I am myself
a branded thief, without ever having touched the wealth for which
I sold my character. God help me! God help me!" He burst into
convulsive sobbing, with his face buried in his hands.

There was a long silence, broken only by his heavy breathing and
by the measured tapping of Sherlock Holmes' finger-tips upon the
edge of the table. Then my friend rose and threw open the door.

"Get out!" said he.

"What, sir! Oh, Heaven bless you!"

"No more words. Get out!"

And no more words were needed. There was a rush, a clatter upon
the stairs, the bang of a door, and the crisp rattle of running
footfalls from the street.

"After all, Watson," said Holmes, reaching up his hand for his
clay pipe, "I am not retained by the police to supply their
deficiencies. If Horner were in danger it would be another thing;
but this fellow will not appear against him, and the case must
collapse. I suppose that I am commuting a felony, but it is just
possible that I am saving a soul. This fellow will not go wrong
again; he is too terribly frightened. Send him to gaol now, and
you make him a gaol-bird for life. Besides, it is the season of
forgiveness. Chance has put in our way a most singular and
whimsical problem, and its solution is its own reward. If you
will have the goodness to touch the bell, Doctor, we will begin
another investigation, in which, also a bird will be the chief
feature."



VIII. THE ADVENTURE OF THE SPECKLED BAND

On glancing over my notes of the seventy odd cases in which I
have during the last eight years studied the methods of my friend
Sherlock Holmes, I find many tragic, some comic, a large number
merely strange, but none commonplace; for, working as he did
rather for the love of his art than for the acquirement of
wealth, he refused to associate himself with any investigation
which did not tend towards the unusual, and even the fantastic.
Of all these varied cases, however, I cannot recall any which
presented more singular features than that which was associated
with the well-known Surrey family of the Roylotts of Stoke Moran.
The events in question occurred in the early days of my
association with Holmes, when we were sharing rooms as bachelors
in Baker Street. It is possible that I might have placed them
upon record before, but a promise of secrecy was made at the
time, from which I have only been freed during the last month by
the untimely death of the lady to whom the pledge was given. It
is perhaps as well that the facts should now come to light, for I
have reasons to know that there are widespread rumours as to the
death of Dr. Grimesby Roylott which tend to make the matter even
more terrible than the truth.

It was early in April in the year '83 that I woke one morning to
find Sherlock Holmes standing, fully dressed, by the side of my
bed. He was a late riser, as a rule, and as the clock on the
mantelpiece showed me that it was only a quarter-past seven, I
blinked up at him in some surprise, and perhaps just a little
resentment, for I was myself regular in my habits.

"Very sorry to knock you up, Watson," said he, "but it's the
common lot this morning. Mrs. Hudson has been knocked up, she
retorted upon me, and I on you."

"What is it, then--a fire?"

"No; a client. It seems that a young lady has arrived in a
considerable state of excitement, who insists upon seeing me. She
is waiting now in the sitting-room. Now, when young ladies wander
about the metropolis at this hour of the morning, and knock
sleepy people up out of their beds, I presume that it is
something very pressing which they have to communicate. Should it
prove to be an interesting case, you would, I am sure, wish to
follow it from the outset. I thought, at any rate, that I should
call you and give you the chance."

"My dear fellow, I would not miss it for anything."

I had no keener pleasure than in following Holmes in his
professional investigations, and in admiring the rapid
deductions, as swift as intuitions, and yet always founded on a
logical basis with which he unravelled the problems which were
submitted to him. I rapidly threw on my clothes and was ready in
a few minutes to accompany my friend down to the sitting-room. A
lady dressed in black and heavily veiled, who had been sitting in
the window, rose as we entered.

"Good-morning, madam," said Holmes cheerily. "My name is Sherlock
Holmes. This is my intimate friend and associate, Dr. Watson,
before whom you can speak as freely as before myself. Ha! I am
glad to see that Mrs. Hudson has had the good sense to light the
fire. Pray draw up to it, and I shall order you a cup of hot
coffee, for I observe that you are shivering."

"It is not cold which makes me shiver," said the woman in a low
voice, changing her seat as requested.

"What, then?"

"It is fear, Mr. Holmes. It is terror." She raised her veil as
she spoke, and we could see that she was indeed in a pitiable
state of agitation, her face all drawn and grey, with restless
frightened eyes, like those of some hunted animal. Her features
and figure were those of a woman of thirty, but her hair was shot
with premature grey, and her expression was weary and haggard.
Sherlock Holmes ran her over with one of his quick,
all-comprehensive glances.

"You must not fear," said he soothingly, bending forward and
patting her forearm. "We shall soon set matters right, I have no
doubt. You have come in by train this morning, I see."

"You know me, then?"

"No, but I observe the second half of a return ticket in the palm
of your left glove. You must have started early, and yet you had
a good drive in a dog-cart, along heavy roads, before you reached
the station."

The lady gave a violent start and stared in bewilderment at my
companion.

"There is no mystery, my dear madam," said he, smiling. "The left
arm of your jacket is spattered with mud in no less than seven
places. The marks are perfectly fresh. There is no vehicle save a
dog-cart which throws up mud in that way, and then only when you
sit on the left-hand side of the driver."

"Whatever your reasons may be, you are perfectly correct," said
she. "I started from home before six, reached Leatherhead at
twenty past, and came in by the first train to Waterloo. Sir, I
can stand this strain no longer; I shall go mad if it continues.
I have no one to turn to--none, save only one, who cares for me,
and he, poor fellow, can be of little aid. I have heard of you,
Mr. Holmes; I have heard of you from Mrs. Farintosh, whom you
helped in the hour of her sore need. It was from her that I had
your address. Oh, sir, do you not think that you could help me,
too, and at least throw a little light through the dense darkness
which surrounds me? At present it is out of my power to reward
you for your services, but in a month or six weeks I shall be
married, with the control of my own income, and then at least you
shall not find me ungrateful."

Holmes turned to his desk and, unlocking it, drew out a small
case-book, which he consulted.

"Farintosh," said he. "Ah yes, I recall the case; it was
concerned with an opal tiara. I think it was before your time,
Watson. I can only say, madam, that I shall be happy to devote
the same care to your case as I did to that of your friend. As to
reward, my profession is its own reward; but you are at liberty
to defray whatever expenses I may be put to, at the time which
suits you best. And now I beg that you will lay before us
everything that may help us in forming an opinion upon the
matter."

"Alas!" replied our visitor, "the very horror of my situation
lies in the fact that my fears are so vague, and my suspicions
depend so entirely upon small points, which might seem trivial to
another, that even he to whom of all others I have a right to
look for help and advice looks upon all that I tell him about it
as the fancies of a nervous woman. He does not say so, but I can
read it from his soothing answers and averted eyes. But I have
heard, Mr. Holmes, that you can see deeply into the manifold
wickedness of the human heart. You may advise me how to walk amid
the dangers which encompass me."

"I am all attention, madam."

"My name is Helen Stoner, and I am living with my stepfather, who
is the last survivor of one of the oldest Saxon families in
England, the Roylotts of Stoke Moran, on the western border of
Surrey."

Holmes nodded his head. "The name is familiar to me," said he.

"The family was at one time among the richest in England, and the
estates extended over the borders into Berkshire in the north,
and Hampshire in the west. In the last century, however, four
successive heirs were of a dissolute and wasteful disposition,
and the family ruin was eventually completed by a gambler in the
days of the Regency. Nothing was left save a few acres of ground,
and the two-hundred-year-old house, which is itself crushed under
a heavy mortgage. The last squire dragged out his existence
there, living the horrible life of an aristocratic pauper; but
his only son, my stepfather, seeing that he must adapt himself to
the new conditions, obtained an advance from a relative, which
enabled him to take a medical degree and went out to Calcutta,
where, by his professional skill and his force of character, he
established a large practice. In a fit of anger, however, caused
by some robberies which had been perpetrated in the house, he
beat his native butler to death and narrowly escaped a capital
sentence. As it was, he suffered a long term of imprisonment and
afterwards returned to England a morose and disappointed man.

"When Dr. Roylott was in India he married my mother, Mrs. Stoner,
the young widow of Major-General Stoner, of the Bengal Artillery.
My sister Julia and I were twins, and we were only two years old
at the time of my mother's re-marriage. She had a considerable
sum of money--not less than 1000 pounds a year--and this she
bequeathed to Dr. Roylott entirely while we resided with him,
with a provision that a certain annual sum should be allowed to
each of us in the event of our marriage. Shortly after our return
to England my mother died--she was killed eight years ago in a
railway accident near Crewe. Dr. Roylott then abandoned his
attempts to establish himself in practice in London and took us
to live with him in the old ancestral house at Stoke Moran. The
money which my mother had left was enough for all our wants, and
there seemed to be no obstacle to our happiness.

"But a terrible change came over our stepfather about this time.
Instead of making friends and exchanging visits with our
neighbours, who had at first been overjoyed to see a Roylott of
Stoke Moran back in the old family seat, he shut himself up in
his house and seldom came out save to indulge in ferocious
quarrels with whoever might cross his path. Violence of temper
approaching to mania has been hereditary in the men of the
family, and in my stepfather's case it had, I believe, been
intensified by his long residence in the tropics. A series of
disgraceful brawls took place, two of which ended in the
police-court, until at last he became the terror of the village,
and the folks would fly at his approach, for he is a man of
immense strength, and absolutely uncontrollable in his anger.

"Last week he hurled the local blacksmith over a parapet into a
stream, and it was only by paying over all the money which I
could gather together that I was able to avert another public
exposure. He had no friends at all save the wandering gipsies,
and he would give these vagabonds leave to encamp upon the few
acres of bramble-covered land which represent the family estate,
and would accept in return the hospitality of their tents,
wandering away with them sometimes for weeks on end. He has a
passion also for Indian animals, which are sent over to him by a
correspondent, and he has at this moment a cheetah and a baboon,
which wander freely over his grounds and are feared by the
villagers almost as much as their master.

"You can imagine from what I say that my poor sister Julia and I
had no great pleasure in our lives. No servant would stay with
us, and for a long time we did all the work of the house. She was
but thirty at the time of her death, and yet her hair had already
begun to whiten, even as mine has."

"Your sister is dead, then?"

"She died just two years ago, and it is of her death that I wish
to speak to you. You can understand that, living the life which I
have described, we were little likely to see anyone of our own
age and position. We had, however, an aunt, my mother's maiden
sister, Miss Honoria Westphail, who lives near Harrow, and we
were occasionally allowed to pay short visits at this lady's
house. Julia went there at Christmas two years ago, and met there
a half-pay major of marines, to whom she became engaged. My
stepfather learned of the engagement when my sister returned and
offered no objection to the marriage; but within a fortnight of
the day which had been fixed for the wedding, the terrible event
occurred which has deprived me of my only companion."

Sherlock Holmes had been leaning back in his chair with his eyes
closed and his head sunk in a cushion, but he half opened his
lids now and glanced across at his visitor.

"Pray be precise as to details," said he.

"It is easy for me to be so, for every event of that dreadful
time is seared into my memory. The manor-house is, as I have
already said, very old, and only one wing is now inhabited. The
bedrooms in this wing are on the ground floor, the sitting-rooms
being in the central block of the buildings. Of these bedrooms
the first is Dr. Roylott's, the second my sister's, and the third
my own. There is no communication between them, but they all open
out into the same corridor. Do I make myself plain?"

"Perfectly so."

"The windows of the three rooms open out upon the lawn. That
fatal night Dr. Roylott had gone to his room early, though we
knew that he had not retired to rest, for my sister was troubled
by the smell of the strong Indian cigars which it was his custom
to smoke. She left her room, therefore, and came into mine, where
she sat for some time, chatting about her approaching wedding. At
eleven o'clock she rose to leave me, but she paused at the door
and looked back.

"'Tell me, Helen,' said she, 'have you ever heard anyone whistle
in the dead of the night?'

"'Never,' said I.

"'I suppose that you could not possibly whistle, yourself, in
your sleep?'

"'Certainly not. But why?'

"'Because during the last few nights I have always, about three
in the morning, heard a low, clear whistle. I am a light sleeper,
and it has awakened me. I cannot tell where it came from--perhaps
from the next room, perhaps from the lawn. I thought that I would
just ask you whether you had heard it.'

"'No, I have not. It must be those wretched gipsies in the
plantation.'

"'Very likely. And yet if it were on the lawn, I wonder that you
did not hear it also.'

"'Ah, but I sleep more heavily than you.'

"'Well, it is of no great consequence, at any rate.' She smiled
back at me, closed my door, and a few moments later I heard her
key turn in the lock."

"Indeed," said Holmes. "Was it your custom always to lock
yourselves in at night?"

"Always."

"And why?"

"I think that I mentioned to you that the doctor kept a cheetah
and a baboon. We had no feeling of security unless our doors were
locked."

"Quite so. Pray proceed with your statement."

"I could not sleep that night. A vague feeling of impending
misfortune impressed me. My sister and I, you will recollect,
were twins, and you know how subtle are the links which bind two
souls which are so closely allied. It was a wild night. The wind
was howling outside, and the rain was beating and splashing
against the windows. Suddenly, amid all the hubbub of the gale,
there burst forth the wild scream of a terrified woman. I knew
that it was my sister's voice. I sprang from my bed, wrapped a
shawl round me, and rushed into the corridor. As I opened my door
I seemed to hear a low whistle, such as my sister described, and
a few moments later a clanging sound, as if a mass of metal had
fallen. As I ran down the passage, my sister's door was unlocked,
and revolved slowly upon its hinges. I stared at it
horror-stricken, not knowing what was about to issue from it. By
the light of the corridor-lamp I saw my sister appear at the
opening, her face blanched with terror, her hands groping for
help, her whole figure swaying to and fro like that of a
drunkard. I ran to her and threw my arms round her, but at that
moment her knees seemed to give way and she fell to the ground.
She writhed as one who is in terrible pain, and her limbs were
dreadfully convulsed. At first I thought that she had not
recognised me, but as I bent over her she suddenly shrieked out
in a voice which I shall never forget, 'Oh, my God! Helen! It was
the band! The speckled band!' There was something else which she
would fain have said, and she stabbed with her finger into the
air in the direction of the doctor's room, but a fresh convulsion
seized her and choked her words. I rushed out, calling loudly for
my stepfather, and I met him hastening from his room in his
dressing-gown. When he reached my sister's side she was
unconscious, and though he poured brandy down her throat and sent
for medical aid from the village, all efforts were in vain, for
she slowly sank and died without having recovered her
consciousness. Such was the dreadful end of my beloved sister."

"One moment," said Holmes, "are you sure about this whistle and
metallic sound? Could you swear to it?"

"That was what the county coroner asked me at the inquiry. It is
my strong impression that I heard it, and yet, among the crash of
the gale and the creaking of an old house, I may possibly have
been deceived."

"Was your sister dressed?"

"No, she was in her night-dress. In her right hand was found the
charred stump of a match, and in her left a match-box."

"Showing that she had struck a light and looked about her when
the alarm took place. That is important. And what conclusions did
the coroner come to?"

"He investigated the case with great care, for Dr. Roylott's
conduct had long been notorious in the county, but he was unable
to find any satisfactory cause of death. My evidence showed that
the door had been fastened upon the inner side, and the windows
were blocked by old-fashioned shutters with broad iron bars,
which were secured every night. The walls were carefully sounded,
and were shown to be quite solid all round, and the flooring was
also thoroughly examined, with the same result. The chimney is
wide, but is barred up by four large staples. It is certain,
therefore, that my sister was quite alone when she met her end.
Besides, there were no marks of any violence upon her."

"How about poison?"

"The doctors examined her for it, but without success."

"What do you think that this unfortunate lady died of, then?"

"It is my belief that she died of pure fear and nervous shock,
though what it was that frightened her I cannot imagine."

"Were there gipsies in the plantation at the time?"

"Yes, there are nearly always some there."

"Ah, and what did you gather from this allusion to a band--a
speckled band?"

"Sometimes I have thought that it was merely the wild talk of
delirium, sometimes that it may have referred to some band of
people, perhaps to these very gipsies in the plantation. I do not
know whether the spotted handkerchiefs which so many of them wear
over their heads might have suggested the strange adjective which
she used."

Holmes shook his head like a man who is far from being satisfied.

"These are very deep waters," said he; "pray go on with your
narrative."

"Two years have passed since then, and my life has been until
lately lonelier than ever. A month ago, however, a dear friend,
whom I have known for many years, has done me the honour to ask
my hand in marriage. His name is Armitage--Percy Armitage--the
second son of Mr. Armitage, of Crane Water, near Reading. My
stepfather has offered no opposition to the match, and we are to
be married in the course of the spring. Two days ago some repairs
were started in the west wing of the building, and my bedroom
wall has been pierced, so that I have had to move into the
chamber in which my sister died, and to sleep in the very bed in
which she slept. Imagine, then, my thrill of terror when last
night, as I lay awake, thinking over her terrible fate, I
suddenly heard in the silence of the night the low whistle which
had been the herald of her own death. I sprang up and lit the
lamp, but nothing was to be seen in the room. I was too shaken to
go to bed again, however, so I dressed, and as soon as it was
daylight I slipped down, got a dog-cart at the Crown Inn, which
is opposite, and drove to Leatherhead, from whence I have come on
this morning with the one object of seeing you and asking your
advice."

"You have done wisely," said my friend. "But have you told me
all?"

"Yes, all."

"Miss Roylott, you have not. You are screening your stepfather."

"Why, what do you mean?"

For answer Holmes pushed back the frill of black lace which
fringed the hand that lay upon our visitor's knee. Five little
livid spots, the marks of four fingers and a thumb, were printed
upon the white wrist.

"You have been cruelly used," said Holmes.

The lady coloured deeply and covered over her injured wrist. "He
is a hard man," she said, "and perhaps he hardly knows his own
strength."

There was a long silence, during which Holmes leaned his chin
upon his hands and stared into the crackling fire.

"This is a very deep business," he said at last. "There are a
thousand details which I should desire to know before I decide
upon our course of action. Yet we have not a moment to lose. If
we were to come to Stoke Moran to-day, would it be possible for
us to see over these rooms without the knowledge of your
stepfather?"

"As it happens, he spoke of coming into town to-day upon some
most important business. It is probable that he will be away all
day, and that there would be nothing to disturb you. We have a
housekeeper now, but she is old and foolish, and I could easily
get her out of the way."

"Excellent. You are not averse to this trip, Watson?"

"By no means."

"Then we shall both come. What are you going to do yourself?"

"I have one or two things which I would wish to do now that I am
in town. But I shall return by the twelve o'clock train, so as to
be there in time for your coming."

"And you may expect us early in the afternoon. I have myself some
small business matters to attend to. Will you not wait and
breakfast?"

"No, I must go. My heart is lightened already since I have
confided my trouble to you. I shall look forward to seeing you
again this afternoon." She dropped her thick black veil over her
face and glided from the room.

"And what do you think of it all, Watson?" asked Sherlock Holmes,
leaning back in his chair.

"It seems to me to be a most dark and sinister business."

"Dark enough and sinister enough."

"Yet if the lady is correct in saying that the flooring and walls
are sound, and that the door, window, and chimney are impassable,
then her sister must have been undoubtedly alone when she met her
mysterious end."

"What becomes, then, of these nocturnal whistles, and what of the
very peculiar words of the dying woman?"

"I cannot think."

"When you combine the ideas of whistles at night, the presence of
a band of gipsies who are on intimate terms with this old doctor,
the fact that we have every reason to believe that the doctor has
an interest in preventing his stepdaughter's marriage, the dying
allusion to a band, and, finally, the fact that Miss Helen Stoner
heard a metallic clang, which might have been caused by one of
those metal bars that secured the shutters falling back into its
place, I think that there is good ground to think that the
mystery may be cleared along those lines."

"But what, then, did the gipsies do?"

"I cannot imagine."

"I see many objections to any such theory."

"And so do I. It is precisely for that reason that we are going
to Stoke Moran this day. I want to see whether the objections are
fatal, or if they may be explained away. But what in the name of
the devil!"

The ejaculation had been drawn from my companion by the fact that
our door had been suddenly dashed open, and that a huge man had
framed himself in the aperture. His costume was a peculiar
mixture of the professional and of the agricultural, having a
black top-hat, a long frock-coat, and a pair of high gaiters,
with a hunting-crop swinging in his hand. So tall was he that his
hat actually brushed the cross bar of the doorway, and his
breadth seemed to span it across from side to side. A large face,
seared with a thousand wrinkles, burned yellow with the sun, and
marked with every evil passion, was turned from one to the other
of us, while his deep-set, bile-shot eyes, and his high, thin,
fleshless nose, gave him somewhat the resemblance to a fierce old
bird of prey.

"Which of you is Holmes?" asked this apparition.

"My name, sir; but you have the advantage of me," said my
companion quietly.

"I am Dr. Grimesby Roylott, of Stoke Moran."

"Indeed, Doctor," said Holmes blandly. "Pray take a seat."

"I will do nothing of the kind. My stepdaughter has been here. I
have traced her. What has she been saying to you?"

"It is a little cold for the time of the year," said Holmes.

"What has she been saying to you?" screamed the old man
furiously.

"But I have heard that the crocuses promise well," continued my
companion imperturbably.

"Ha! You put me off, do you?" said our new visitor, taking a step
forward and shaking his hunting-crop. "I know you, you scoundrel!
I have heard of you before. You are Holmes, the meddler."

My friend smiled.

"Holmes, the busybody!"

His smile broadened.

"Holmes, the Scotland Yard Jack-in-office!"

Holmes chuckled heartily. "Your conversation is most
entertaining," said he. "When you go out close the door, for
there is a decided draught."

"I will go when I have said my say. Don't you dare to meddle with
my affairs. I know that Miss Stoner has been here. I traced her!
I am a dangerous man to fall foul of! See here." He stepped
swiftly forward, seized the poker, and bent it into a curve with
his huge brown hands.

"See that you keep yourself out of my grip," he snarled, and
hurling the twisted poker into the fireplace he strode out of the
room.

"He seems a very amiable person," said Holmes, laughing. "I am
not quite so bulky, but if he had remained I might have shown him
that my grip was not much more feeble than his own." As he spoke
he picked up the steel poker and, with a sudden effort,
straightened it out again.

"Fancy his having the insolence to confound me with the official
detective force! This incident gives zest to our investigation,
however, and I only trust that our little friend will not suffer
from her imprudence in allowing this brute to trace her. And now,
Watson, we shall order breakfast, and afterwards I shall walk
down to Doctors' Commons, where I hope to get some data which may
help us in this matter."


It was nearly one o'clock when Sherlock Holmes returned from his
excursion. He held in his hand a sheet of blue paper, scrawled
over with notes and figures.

"I have seen the will of the deceased wife," said he. "To
determine its exact meaning I have been obliged to work out the
present prices of the investments with which it is concerned. The
total income, which at the time of the wife's death was little
short of 1100 pounds, is now, through the fall in agricultural
prices, not more than 750 pounds. Each daughter can claim an
income of 250 pounds, in case of marriage. It is evident,
therefore, that if both girls had married, this beauty would have
had a mere pittance, while even one of them would cripple him to
a very serious extent. My morning's work has not been wasted,
since it has proved that he has the very strongest motives for
standing in the way of anything of the sort. And now, Watson,
this is too serious for dawdling, especially as the old man is
aware that we are interesting ourselves in his affairs; so if you
are ready, we shall call a cab and drive to Waterloo. I should be
very much obliged if you would slip your revolver into your
pocket. An Eley's No. 2 is an excellent argument with gentlemen
who can twist steel pokers into knots. That and a tooth-brush
are, I think, all that we need."

At Waterloo we were fortunate in catching a train for
Leatherhead, where we hired a trap at the station inn and drove
for four or five miles through the lovely Surrey lanes. It was a
perfect day, with a bright sun and a few fleecy clouds in the
heavens. The trees and wayside hedges were just throwing out
their first green shoots, and the air was full of the pleasant
smell of the moist earth. To me at least there was a strange
contrast between the sweet promise of the spring and this
sinister quest upon which we were engaged. My companion sat in
the front of the trap, his arms folded, his hat pulled down over
his eyes, and his chin sunk upon his breast, buried in the
deepest thought. Suddenly, however, he started, tapped me on the
shoulder, and pointed over the meadows.

"Look there!" said he.

A heavily timbered park stretched up in a gentle slope,
thickening into a grove at the highest point. From amid the
branches there jutted out the grey gables and high roof-tree of a
very old mansion.

"Stoke Moran?" said he.

"Yes, sir, that be the house of Dr. Grimesby Roylott," remarked
the driver.

"There is some building going on there," said Holmes; "that is
where we are going."

"There's the village," said the driver, pointing to a cluster of
roofs some distance to the left; "but if you want to get to the
house, you'll find it shorter to get over this stile, and so by
the foot-path over the fields. There it is, where the lady is
walking."

"And the lady, I fancy, is Miss Stoner," observed Holmes, shading
his eyes. "Yes, I think we had better do as you suggest."

We got off, paid our fare, and the trap rattled back on its way
to Leatherhead.

"I thought it as well," said Holmes as we climbed the stile,
"that this fellow should think we had come here as architects, or
on some definite business. It may stop his gossip.
Good-afternoon, Miss Stoner. You see that we have been as good as
our word."

Our client of the morning had hurried forward to meet us with a
face which spoke her joy. "I have been waiting so eagerly for
you," she cried, shaking hands with us warmly. "All has turned
out splendidly. Dr. Roylott has gone to town, and it is unlikely
that he will be back before evening."

"We have had the pleasure of making the doctor's acquaintance,"
said Holmes, and in a few words he sketched out what had
occurred. Miss Stoner turned white to the lips as she listened.

"Good heavens!" she cried, "he has followed me, then."

"So it appears."

"He is so cunning that I never know when I am safe from him. What
will he say when he returns?"

"He must guard himself, for he may find that there is someone
more cunning than himself upon his track. You must lock yourself
up from him to-night. If he is violent, we shall take you away to
your aunt's at Harrow. Now, we must make the best use of our
time, so kindly take us at once to the rooms which we are to
examine."

The building was of grey, lichen-blotched stone, with a high
central portion and two curving wings, like the claws of a crab,
thrown out on each side. In one of these wings the windows were
broken and blocked with wooden boards, while the roof was partly
caved in, a picture of ruin. The central portion was in little
better repair, but the right-hand block was comparatively modern,
and the blinds in the windows, with the blue smoke curling up
from the chimneys, showed that this was where the family resided.
Some scaffolding had been erected against the end wall, and the
stone-work had been broken into, but there were no signs of any
workmen at the moment of our visit. Holmes walked slowly up and
down the ill-trimmed lawn and examined with deep attention the
outsides of the windows.

"This, I take it, belongs to the room in which you used to sleep,
the centre one to your sister's, and the one next to the main
building to Dr. Roylott's chamber?"

"Exactly so. But I am now sleeping in the middle one."

"Pending the alterations, as I understand. By the way, there does
not seem to be any very pressing need for repairs at that end
wall."

"There were none. I believe that it was an excuse to move me from
my room."

"Ah! that is suggestive. Now, on the other side of this narrow
wing runs the corridor from which these three rooms open. There
are windows in it, of course?"

"Yes, but very small ones. Too narrow for anyone to pass
through."

"As you both locked your doors at night, your rooms were
unapproachable from that side. Now, would you have the kindness
to go into your room and bar your shutters?"

Miss Stoner did so, and Holmes, after a careful examination
through the open window, endeavoured in every way to force the
shutter open, but without success. There was no slit through
which a knife could be passed to raise the bar. Then with his
lens he tested the hinges, but they were of solid iron, built
firmly into the massive masonry. "Hum!" said he, scratching his
chin in some perplexity, "my theory certainly presents some
difficulties. No one could pass these shutters if they were
bolted. Well, we shall see if the inside throws any light upon
the matter."

A small side door led into the whitewashed corridor from which
the three bedrooms opened. Holmes refused to examine the third
chamber, so we passed at once to the second, that in which Miss
Stoner was now sleeping, and in which her sister had met with her
fate. It was a homely little room, with a low ceiling and a
gaping fireplace, after the fashion of old country-houses. A
brown chest of drawers stood in one corner, a narrow
white-counterpaned bed in another, and a dressing-table on the
left-hand side of the window. These articles, with two small
wicker-work chairs, made up all the furniture in the room save
for a square of Wilton carpet in the centre. The boards round and
the panelling of the walls were of brown, worm-eaten oak, so old
and discoloured that it may have dated from the original building
of the house. Holmes drew one of the chairs into a corner and sat
silent, while his eyes travelled round and round and up and down,
taking in every detail of the apartment.

"Where does that bell communicate with?" he asked at last
pointing to a thick bell-rope which hung down beside the bed, the
tassel actually lying upon the pillow.

"It goes to the housekeeper's room."

"It looks newer than the other things?"

"Yes, it was only put there a couple of years ago."

"Your sister asked for it, I suppose?"

"No, I never heard of her using it. We used always to get what we
wanted for ourselves."

"Indeed, it seemed unnecessary to put so nice a bell-pull there.
You will excuse me for a few minutes while I satisfy myself as to
this floor." He threw himself down upon his face with his lens in
his hand and crawled swiftly backward and forward, examining
minutely the cracks between the boards. Then he did the same with
the wood-work with which the chamber was panelled. Finally he
walked over to the bed and spent some time in staring at it and
in running his eye up and down the wall. Finally he took the
bell-rope in his hand and gave it a brisk tug.

"Why, it's a dummy," said he.

"Won't it ring?"

"No, it is not even attached to a wire. This is very interesting.
You can see now that it is fastened to a hook just above where
the little opening for the ventilator is."

"How very absurd! I never noticed that before."

"Very strange!" muttered Holmes, pulling at the rope. "There are
one or two very singular points about this room. For example,
what a fool a builder must be to open a ventilator into another
room, when, with the same trouble, he might have communicated
with the outside air!"

"That is also quite modern," said the lady.

"Done about the same time as the bell-rope?" remarked Holmes.

"Yes, there were several little changes carried out about that
time."

"They seem to have been of a most interesting character--dummy
bell-ropes, and ventilators which do not ventilate. With your
permission, Miss Stoner, we shall now carry our researches into
the inner apartment."

Dr. Grimesby Roylott's chamber was larger than that of his
step-daughter, but was as plainly furnished. A camp-bed, a small
wooden shelf full of books, mostly of a technical character, an
armchair beside the bed, a plain wooden chair against the wall, a
round table, and a large iron safe were the principal things
which met the eye. Holmes walked slowly round and examined each
and all of them with the keenest interest.

"What's in here?" he asked, tapping the safe.

"My stepfather's business papers."

"Oh! you have seen inside, then?"

"Only once, some years ago. I remember that it was full of
papers."

"There isn't a cat in it, for example?"

"No. What a strange idea!"

"Well, look at this!" He took up a small saucer of milk which
stood on the top of it.

"No; we don't keep a cat. But there is a cheetah and a baboon."

"Ah, yes, of course! Well, a cheetah is just a big cat, and yet a
saucer of milk does not go very far in satisfying its wants, I
daresay. There is one point which I should wish to determine." He
squatted down in front of the wooden chair and examined the seat
of it with the greatest attention.

"Thank you. That is quite settled," said he, rising and putting
his lens in his pocket. "Hullo! Here is something interesting!"

The object which had caught his eye was a small dog lash hung on
one corner of the bed. The lash, however, was curled upon itself
and tied so as to make a loop of whipcord.

"What do you make of that, Watson?"

"It's a common enough lash. But I don't know why it should be
tied."

"That is not quite so common, is it? Ah, me! it's a wicked world,
and when a clever man turns his brains to crime it is the worst
of all. I think that I have seen enough now, Miss Stoner, and
with your permission we shall walk out upon the lawn."

I had never seen my friend's face so grim or his brow so dark as
it was when we turned from the scene of this investigation. We
had walked several times up and down the lawn, neither Miss
Stoner nor myself liking to break in upon his thoughts before he
roused himself from his reverie.

"It is very essential, Miss Stoner," said he, "that you should
absolutely follow my advice in every respect."

"I shall most certainly do so."

"The matter is too serious for any hesitation. Your life may
depend upon your compliance."

"I assure you that I am in your hands."

"In the first place, both my friend and I must spend the night in
your room."

Both Miss Stoner and I gazed at him in astonishment.

"Yes, it must be so. Let me explain. I believe that that is the
village inn over there?"

"Yes, that is the Crown."

"Very good. Your windows would be visible from there?"

"Certainly."

"You must confine yourself to your room, on pretence of a
headache, when your stepfather comes back. Then when you hear him
retire for the night, you must open the shutters of your window,
undo the hasp, put your lamp there as a signal to us, and then
withdraw quietly with everything which you are likely to want
into the room which you used to occupy. I have no doubt that, in
spite of the repairs, you could manage there for one night."

"Oh, yes, easily."

"The rest you will leave in our hands."

"But what will you do?"

"We shall spend the night in your room, and we shall investigate
the cause of this noise which has disturbed you."

"I believe, Mr. Holmes, that you have already made up your mind,"
said Miss Stoner, laying her hand upon my companion's sleeve.

"Perhaps I have."

"Then, for pity's sake, tell me what was the cause of my sister's
death."

"I should prefer to have clearer proofs before I speak."

"You can at least tell me whether my own thought is correct, and
if she died from some sudden fright."

"No, I do not think so. I think that there was probably some more
tangible cause. And now, Miss Stoner, we must leave you for if
Dr. Roylott returned and saw us our journey would be in vain.
Good-bye, and be brave, for if you will do what I have told you,
you may rest assured that we shall soon drive away the dangers
that threaten you."

Sherlock Holmes and I had no difficulty in engaging a bedroom and
sitting-room at the Crown Inn. They were on the upper floor, and
from our window we could command a view of the avenue gate, and
of the inhabited wing of Stoke Moran Manor House. At dusk we saw
Dr. Grimesby Roylott drive past, his huge form looming up beside
the little figure of the lad who drove him. The boy had some
slight difficulty in undoing the heavy iron gates, and we heard
the hoarse roar of the doctor's voice and saw the fury with which
he shook his clinched fists at him. The trap drove on, and a few
minutes later we saw a sudden light spring up among the trees as
the lamp was lit in one of the sitting-rooms.

"Do you know, Watson," said Holmes as we sat together in the
gathering darkness, "I have really some scruples as to taking you
to-night. There is a distinct element of danger."

"Can I be of assistance?"

"Your presence might be invaluable."

"Then I shall certainly come."

"It is very kind of you."

"You speak of danger. You have evidently seen more in these rooms
than was visible to me."

"No, but I fancy that I may have deduced a little more. I imagine
that you saw all that I did."

"I saw nothing remarkable save the bell-rope, and what purpose
that could answer I confess is more than I can imagine."

"You saw the ventilator, too?"

"Yes, but I do not think that it is such a very unusual thing to
have a small opening between two rooms. It was so small that a
rat could hardly pass through."

"I knew that we should find a ventilator before ever we came to
Stoke Moran."

"My dear Holmes!"

"Oh, yes, I did. You remember in her statement she said that her
sister could smell Dr. Roylott's cigar. Now, of course that
suggested at once that there must be a communication between the
two rooms. It could only be a small one, or it would have been
remarked upon at the coroner's inquiry. I deduced a ventilator."

"But what harm can there be in that?"

"Well, there is at least a curious coincidence of dates. A
ventilator is made, a cord is hung, and a lady who sleeps in the
bed dies. Does not that strike you?"

"I cannot as yet see any connection."

"Did you observe anything very peculiar about that bed?"

"No."

"It was clamped to the floor. Did you ever see a bed fastened
like that before?"

"I cannot say that I have."

"The lady could not move her bed. It must always be in the same
relative position to the ventilator and to the rope--or so we may
call it, since it was clearly never meant for a bell-pull."

"Holmes," I cried, "I seem to see dimly what you are hinting at.
We are only just in time to prevent some subtle and horrible
crime."

"Subtle enough and horrible enough. When a doctor does go wrong
he is the first of criminals. He has nerve and he has knowledge.
Palmer and Pritchard were among the heads of their profession.
This man strikes even deeper, but I think, Watson, that we shall
be able to strike deeper still. But we shall have horrors enough
before the night is over; for goodness' sake let us have a quiet
pipe and turn our minds for a few hours to something more
cheerful."


About nine o'clock the light among the trees was extinguished,
and all was dark in the direction of the Manor House. Two hours
passed slowly away, and then, suddenly, just at the stroke of
eleven, a single bright light shone out right in front of us.

"That is our signal," said Holmes, springing to his feet; "it
comes from the middle window."

As we passed out he exchanged a few words with the landlord,
explaining that we were going on a late visit to an acquaintance,
and that it was possible that we might spend the night there. A
moment later we were out on the dark road, a chill wind blowing
in our faces, and one yellow light twinkling in front of us
through the gloom to guide us on our sombre errand.

There was little difficulty in entering the grounds, for
unrepaired breaches gaped in the old park wall. Making our way
among the trees, we reached the lawn, crossed it, and were about
to enter through the window when out from a clump of laurel
bushes there darted what seemed to be a hideous and distorted
child, who threw itself upon the grass with writhing limbs and
then ran swiftly across the lawn into the darkness.

"My God!" I whispered; "did you see it?"

Holmes was for the moment as startled as I. His hand closed like
a vice upon my wrist in his agitation. Then he broke into a low
laugh and put his lips to my ear.

"It is a nice household," he murmured. "That is the baboon."

I had forgotten the strange pets which the doctor affected. There
was a cheetah, too; perhaps we might find it upon our shoulders
at any moment. I confess that I felt easier in my mind when,
after following Holmes' example and slipping off my shoes, I
found myself inside the bedroom. My companion noiselessly closed
the shutters, moved the lamp onto the table, and cast his eyes
round the room. All was as we had seen it in the daytime. Then
creeping up to me and making a trumpet of his hand, he whispered
into my ear again so gently that it was all that I could do to
distinguish the words:

"The least sound would be fatal to our plans."

I nodded to show that I had heard.

"We must sit without light. He would see it through the
ventilator."

I nodded again.

"Do not go asleep; your very life may depend upon it. Have your
pistol ready in case we should need it. I will sit on the side of
the bed, and you in that chair."

I took out my revolver and laid it on the corner of the table.

Holmes had brought up a long thin cane, and this he placed upon
the bed beside him. By it he laid the box of matches and the
stump of a candle. Then he turned down the lamp, and we were left
in darkness.

How shall I ever forget that dreadful vigil? I could not hear a
sound, not even the drawing of a breath, and yet I knew that my
companion sat open-eyed, within a few feet of me, in the same
state of nervous tension in which I was myself. The shutters cut
off the least ray of light, and we waited in absolute darkness.

From outside came the occasional cry of a night-bird, and once at
our very window a long drawn catlike whine, which told us that
the cheetah was indeed at liberty. Far away we could hear the
deep tones of the parish clock, which boomed out every quarter of
an hour. How long they seemed, those quarters! Twelve struck, and
one and two and three, and still we sat waiting silently for
whatever might befall.

Suddenly there was the momentary gleam of a light up in the
direction of the ventilator, which vanished immediately, but was
succeeded by a strong smell of burning oil and heated metal.
Someone in the next room had lit a dark-lantern. I heard a gentle
sound of movement, and then all was silent once more, though the
smell grew stronger. For half an hour I sat with straining ears.
Then suddenly another sound became audible--a very gentle,
soothing sound, like that of a small jet of steam escaping
continually from a kettle. The instant that we heard it, Holmes
sprang from the bed, struck a match, and lashed furiously with
his cane at the bell-pull.

"You see it, Watson?" he yelled. "You see it?"

But I saw nothing. At the moment when Holmes struck the light I
heard a low, clear whistle, but the sudden glare flashing into my
weary eyes made it impossible for me to tell what it was at which
my friend lashed so savagely. I could, however, see that his face
was deadly pale and filled with horror and loathing. He had
ceased to strike and was gazing up at the ventilator when
suddenly there broke from the silence of the night the most
horrible cry to which I have ever listened. It swelled up louder
and louder, a hoarse yell of pain and fear and anger all mingled
in the one dreadful shriek. They say that away down in the
village, and even in the distant parsonage, that cry raised the
sleepers from their beds. It struck cold to our hearts, and I
stood gazing at Holmes, and he at me, until the last echoes of it
had died away into the silence from which it rose.

"What can it mean?" I gasped.

"It means that it is all over," Holmes answered. "And perhaps,
after all, it is for the best. Take your pistol, and we will
enter Dr. Roylott's room."

With a grave face he lit the lamp and led the way down the
corridor. Twice he struck at the chamber door without any reply
from within. Then he turned the handle and entered, I at his
heels, with the cocked pistol in my hand.

It was a singular sight which met our eyes. On the table stood a
dark-lantern with the shutter half open, throwing a brilliant
beam of light upon the iron safe, the door of which was ajar.
Beside this table, on the wooden chair, sat Dr. Grimesby Roylott
clad in a long grey dressing-gown, his bare ankles protruding
beneath, and his feet thrust into red heelless Turkish slippers.
Across his lap lay the short stock with the long lash which we
had noticed during the day. His chin was cocked upward and his
eyes were fixed in a dreadful, rigid stare at the corner of the
ceiling. Round his brow he had a peculiar yellow band, with
brownish speckles, which seemed to be bound tightly round his
head. As we entered he made neither sound nor motion.

"The band! the speckled band!" whispered Holmes.

I took a step forward. In an instant his strange headgear began
to move, and there reared itself from among his hair the squat
diamond-shaped head and puffed neck of a loathsome serpent.

"It is a swamp adder!" cried Holmes; "the deadliest snake in
India. He has died within ten seconds of being bitten. Violence
does, in truth, recoil upon the violent, and the schemer falls
into the pit which he digs for another. Let us thrust this
creature back into its den, and we can then remove Miss Stoner to
some place of shelter and let the county police know what has
happened."

As he spoke he drew the dog-whip swiftly from the dead man's lap,
and throwing the noose round the reptile's neck he drew it from
its horrid perch and, carrying it at arm's length, threw it into
the iron safe, which he closed upon it.

Such are the true facts of the death of Dr. Grimesby Roylott, of
Stoke Moran. It is not necessary that I should prolong a
narrative which has already run to too great a length by telling
how we broke the sad news to the terrified girl, how we conveyed
her by the morning train to the care of her good aunt at Harrow,
of how the slow process of official inquiry came to the
conclusion that the doctor met his fate while indiscreetly
playing with a dangerous pet. The little which I had yet to learn
of the case was told me by Sherlock Holmes as we travelled back
next day.

"I had," said he, "come to an entirely erroneous conclusion which
shows, my dear Watson, how dangerous it always is to reason from
insufficient data. The presence of the gipsies, and the use of
the word 'band,' which was used by the poor girl, no doubt, to
explain the appearance which she had caught a hurried glimpse of
by the light of her match, were sufficient to put me upon an
entirely wrong scent. I can only claim the merit that I instantly
reconsidered my position when, however, it became clear to me
that whatever danger threatened an occupant of the room could not
come either from the window or the door. My attention was
speedily drawn, as I have already remarked to you, to this
ventilator, and to the bell-rope which hung down to the bed. The
discovery that this was a dummy, and that the bed was clamped to
the floor, instantly gave rise to the suspicion that the rope was
there as a bridge for something passing through the hole and
coming to the bed. The idea of a snake instantly occurred to me,
and when I coupled it with my knowledge that the doctor was
furnished with a supply of creatures from India, I felt that I
was probably on the right track. The idea of using a form of
poison which could not possibly be discovered by any chemical
test was just such a one as would occur to a clever and ruthless
man who had had an Eastern training. The rapidity with which such
a poison would take effect would also, from his point of view, be
an advantage. It would be a sharp-eyed coroner, indeed, who could
distinguish the two little dark punctures which would show where
the poison fangs had done their work. Then I thought of the
whistle. Of course he must recall the snake before the morning
light revealed it to the victim. He had trained it, probably by
the use of the milk which we saw, to return to him when summoned.
He would put it through this ventilator at the hour that he
thought best, with the certainty that it would crawl down the
rope and land on the bed. It might or might not bite the
occupant, perhaps she might escape every night for a week, but
sooner or later she must fall a victim.

"I had come to these conclusions before ever I had entered his
room. An inspection of his chair showed me that he had been in
the habit of standing on it, which of course would be necessary
in order that he should reach the ventilator. The sight of the
safe, the saucer of milk, and the loop of whipcord were enough to
finally dispel any doubts which may have remained. The metallic
clang heard by Miss Stoner was obviously caused by her stepfather
hastily closing the door of his safe upon its terrible occupant.
Having once made up my mind, you know the steps which I took in
order to put the matter to the proof. I heard the creature hiss
as I have no doubt that you did also, and I instantly lit the
light and attacked it."

"With the result of driving it through the ventilator."

"And also with the result of causing it to turn upon its master
at the other side. Some of the blows of my cane came home and
roused its snakish temper, so that it flew upon the first person
it saw. In this way I am no doubt indirectly responsible for Dr.
Grimesby Roylott's death, and I cannot say that it is likely to
weigh very heavily upon my conscience."



IX. THE ADVENTURE OF THE ENGINEER'S THUMB

Of all the problems which have been submitted to my friend, Mr.
Sherlock Holmes, for solution during the years of our intimacy,
there were only two which I was the means of introducing to his
notice--that of Mr. Hatherley's thumb, and that of Colonel
Warburton's madness. Of these the latter may have afforded a
finer field for an acute and original observer, but the other was
so strange in its inception and so dramatic in its details that
it may be the more worthy of being placed upon record, even if it
gave my friend fewer openings for those deductive methods of
reasoning by which he achieved such remarkable results. The story
has, I believe, been told more than once in the newspapers, but,
like all such narratives, its effect is much less striking when
set forth en bloc in a single half-column of print than when the
facts slowly evolve before your own eyes, and the mystery clears
gradually away as each new discovery furnishes a step which leads
on to the complete truth. At the time the circumstances made a
deep impression upon me, and the lapse of two years has hardly
served to weaken the effect.

It was in the summer of '89, not long after my marriage, that the
events occurred which I am now about to summarise. I had returned
to civil practice and had finally abandoned Holmes in his Baker
Street rooms, although I continually visited him and occasionally
even persuaded him to forgo his Bohemian habits so far as to come
and visit us. My practice had steadily increased, and as I
happened to live at no very great distance from Paddington
Station, I got a few patients from among the officials. One of
these, whom I had cured of a painful and lingering disease, was
never weary of advertising my virtues and of endeavouring to send
me on every sufferer over whom he might have any influence.

One morning, at a little before seven o'clock, I was awakened by
the maid tapping at the door to announce that two men had come
from Paddington and were waiting in the consulting-room. I
dressed hurriedly, for I knew by experience that railway cases
were seldom trivial, and hastened downstairs. As I descended, my
old ally, the guard, came out of the room and closed the door
tightly behind him.

"I've got him here," he whispered, jerking his thumb over his
shoulder; "he's all right."

"What is it, then?" I asked, for his manner suggested that it was
some strange creature which he had caged up in my room.

"It's a new patient," he whispered. "I thought I'd bring him
round myself; then he couldn't slip away. There he is, all safe
and sound. I must go now, Doctor; I have my dooties, just the
same as you." And off he went, this trusty tout, without even
giving me time to thank him.

I entered my consulting-room and found a gentleman seated by the
table. He was quietly dressed in a suit of heather tweed with a
soft cloth cap which he had laid down upon my books. Round one of
his hands he had a handkerchief wrapped, which was mottled all
over with bloodstains. He was young, not more than
five-and-twenty, I should say, with a strong, masculine face; but
he was exceedingly pale and gave me the impression of a man who
was suffering from some strong agitation, which it took all his
strength of mind to control.

"I am sorry to knock you up so early, Doctor," said he, "but I
have had a very serious accident during the night. I came in by
train this morning, and on inquiring at Paddington as to where I
might find a doctor, a worthy fellow very kindly escorted me
here. I gave the maid a card, but I see that she has left it upon
the side-table."

I took it up and glanced at it. "Mr. Victor Hatherley, hydraulic
engineer, 16A, Victoria Street (3rd floor)." That was the name,
style, and abode of my morning visitor. "I regret that I have
kept you waiting," said I, sitting down in my library-chair. "You
are fresh from a night journey, I understand, which is in itself
a monotonous occupation."

"Oh, my night could not be called monotonous," said he, and
laughed. He laughed very heartily, with a high, ringing note,
leaning back in his chair and shaking his sides. All my medical
instincts rose up against that laugh.

"Stop it!" I cried; "pull yourself together!" and I poured out
some water from a caraffe.

It was useless, however. He was off in one of those hysterical
outbursts which come upon a strong nature when some great crisis
is over and gone. Presently he came to himself once more, very
weary and pale-looking.

"I have been making a fool of myself," he gasped.

"Not at all. Drink this." I dashed some brandy into the water,
and the colour began to come back to his bloodless cheeks.

"That's better!" said he. "And now, Doctor, perhaps you would
kindly attend to my thumb, or rather to the place where my thumb
used to be."

He unwound the handkerchief and held out his hand. It gave even
my hardened nerves a shudder to look at it. There were four
protruding fingers and a horrid red, spongy surface where the
thumb should have been. It had been hacked or torn right out from
the roots.

"Good heavens!" I cried, "this is a terrible injury. It must have
bled considerably."

"Yes, it did. I fainted when it was done, and I think that I must
have been senseless for a long time. When I came to I found that
it was still bleeding, so I tied one end of my handkerchief very
tightly round the wrist and braced it up with a twig."

"Excellent! You should have been a surgeon."

"It is a question of hydraulics, you see, and came within my own
province."

"This has been done," said I, examining the wound, "by a very
heavy and sharp instrument."

"A thing like a cleaver," said he.

"An accident, I presume?"

"By no means."

"What! a murderous attack?"

"Very murderous indeed."

"You horrify me."

I sponged the wound, cleaned it, dressed it, and finally covered
it over with cotton wadding and carbolised bandages. He lay back
without wincing, though he bit his lip from time to time.

"How is that?" I asked when I had finished.

"Capital! Between your brandy and your bandage, I feel a new man.
I was very weak, but I have had a good deal to go through."

"Perhaps you had better not speak of the matter. It is evidently
trying to your nerves."

"Oh, no, not now. I shall have to tell my tale to the police;
but, between ourselves, if it were not for the convincing
evidence of this wound of mine, I should be surprised if they
believed my statement, for it is a very extraordinary one, and I
have not much in the way of proof with which to back it up; and,
even if they believe me, the clues which I can give them are so
vague that it is a question whether justice will be done."

"Ha!" cried I, "if it is anything in the nature of a problem
which you desire to see solved, I should strongly recommend you
to come to my friend, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, before you go to the
official police."

"Oh, I have heard of that fellow," answered my visitor, "and I
should be very glad if he would take the matter up, though of
course I must use the official police as well. Would you give me
an introduction to him?"

"I'll do better. I'll take you round to him myself."

"I should be immensely obliged to you."

"We'll call a cab and go together. We shall just be in time to
have a little breakfast with him. Do you feel equal to it?"

"Yes; I shall not feel easy until I have told my story."

"Then my servant will call a cab, and I shall be with you in an
instant." I rushed upstairs, explained the matter shortly to my
wife, and in five minutes was inside a hansom, driving with my
new acquaintance to Baker Street.

Sherlock Holmes was, as I expected, lounging about his
sitting-room in his dressing-gown, reading the agony column of The
Times and smoking his before-breakfast pipe, which was composed
of all the plugs and dottles left from his smokes of the day
before, all carefully dried and collected on the corner of the
mantelpiece. He received us in his quietly genial fashion,
ordered fresh rashers and eggs, and joined us in a hearty meal.
When it was concluded he settled our new acquaintance upon the
sofa, placed a pillow beneath his head, and laid a glass of
brandy and water within his reach.

"It is easy to see that your experience has been no common one,
Mr. Hatherley," said he. "Pray, lie down there and make yourself
absolutely at home. Tell us what you can, but stop when you are
tired and keep up your strength with a little stimulant."

"Thank you," said my patient, "but I have felt another man since
the doctor bandaged me, and I think that your breakfast has
completed the cure. I shall take up as little of your valuable
time as possible, so I shall start at once upon my peculiar
experiences."

Holmes sat in his big armchair with the weary, heavy-lidded
expression which veiled his keen and eager nature, while I sat
opposite to him, and we listened in silence to the strange story
which our visitor detailed to us.

"You must know," said he, "that I am an orphan and a bachelor,
residing alone in lodgings in London. By profession I am a
hydraulic engineer, and I have had considerable experience of my
work during the seven years that I was apprenticed to Venner &
Matheson, the well-known firm, of Greenwich. Two years ago,
having served my time, and having also come into a fair sum of
money through my poor father's death, I determined to start in
business for myself and took professional chambers in Victoria
Street.

"I suppose that everyone finds his first independent start in
business a dreary experience. To me it has been exceptionally so.
During two years I have had three consultations and one small
job, and that is absolutely all that my profession has brought
me. My gross takings amount to 27 pounds 10s. Every day, from
nine in the morning until four in the afternoon, I waited in my
little den, until at last my heart began to sink, and I came to
believe that I should never have any practice at all.

"Yesterday, however, just as I was thinking of leaving the
office, my clerk entered to say there was a gentleman waiting who
wished to see me upon business. He brought up a card, too, with
the name of 'Colonel Lysander Stark' engraved upon it. Close at
his heels came the colonel himself, a man rather over the middle
size, but of an exceeding thinness. I do not think that I have
ever seen so thin a man. His whole face sharpened away into nose
and chin, and the skin of his cheeks was drawn quite tense over
his outstanding bones. Yet this emaciation seemed to be his
natural habit, and due to no disease, for his eye was bright, his
step brisk, and his bearing assured. He was plainly but neatly
dressed, and his age, I should judge, would be nearer forty than
thirty.

"'Mr. Hatherley?' said he, with something of a German accent.
'You have been recommended to me, Mr. Hatherley, as being a man
who is not only proficient in his profession but is also discreet
and capable of preserving a secret.'

"I bowed, feeling as flattered as any young man would at such an
address. 'May I ask who it was who gave me so good a character?'

"'Well, perhaps it is better that I should not tell you that just
at this moment. I have it from the same source that you are both
an orphan and a bachelor and are residing alone in London.'

"'That is quite correct,' I answered; 'but you will excuse me if
I say that I cannot see how all this bears upon my professional
qualifications. I understand that it was on a professional matter
that you wished to speak to me?'

"'Undoubtedly so. But you will find that all I say is really to
the point. I have a professional commission for you, but absolute
secrecy is quite essential--absolute secrecy, you understand, and
of course we may expect that more from a man who is alone than
from one who lives in the bosom of his family.'

"'If I promise to keep a secret,' said I, 'you may absolutely
depend upon my doing so.'

"He looked very hard at me as I spoke, and it seemed to me that I
had never seen so suspicious and questioning an eye.

"'Do you promise, then?' said he at last.

"'Yes, I promise.'

"'Absolute and complete silence before, during, and after? No
reference to the matter at all, either in word or writing?'

"'I have already given you my word.'

"'Very good.' He suddenly sprang up, and darting like lightning
across the room he flung open the door. The passage outside was
empty.

"'That's all right,' said he, coming back. 'I know that clerks are
sometimes curious as to their master's affairs. Now we can talk
in safety.' He drew up his chair very close to mine and began to
stare at me again with the same questioning and thoughtful look.

"A feeling of repulsion, and of something akin to fear had begun
to rise within me at the strange antics of this fleshless man.
Even my dread of losing a client could not restrain me from
showing my impatience.

"'I beg that you will state your business, sir,' said I; 'my time
is of value.' Heaven forgive me for that last sentence, but the
words came to my lips.

"'How would fifty guineas for a night's work suit you?' he asked.

"'Most admirably.'

"'I say a night's work, but an hour's would be nearer the mark. I
simply want your opinion about a hydraulic stamping machine which
has got out of gear. If you show us what is wrong we shall soon
set it right ourselves. What do you think of such a commission as
that?'

"'The work appears to be light and the pay munificent.'

"'Precisely so. We shall want you to come to-night by the last
train.'

"'Where to?'

"'To Eyford, in Berkshire. It is a little place near the borders
of Oxfordshire, and within seven miles of Reading. There is a
train from Paddington which would bring you there at about
11:15.'

"'Very good.'

"'I shall come down in a carriage to meet you.'

"'There is a drive, then?'

"'Yes, our little place is quite out in the country. It is a good
seven miles from Eyford Station.'

"'Then we can hardly get there before midnight. I suppose there
would be no chance of a train back. I should be compelled to stop
the night.'

"'Yes, we could easily give you a shake-down.'

"'That is very awkward. Could I not come at some more convenient
hour?'

"'We have judged it best that you should come late. It is to
recompense you for any inconvenience that we are paying to you, a
young and unknown man, a fee which would buy an opinion from the
very heads of your profession. Still, of course, if you would
like to draw out of the business, there is plenty of time to do
so.'

"I thought of the fifty guineas, and of how very useful they
would be to me. 'Not at all,' said I, 'I shall be very happy to
accommodate myself to your wishes. I should like, however, to
understand a little more clearly what it is that you wish me to
do.'

"'Quite so. It is very natural that the pledge of secrecy which
we have exacted from you should have aroused your curiosity. I
have no wish to commit you to anything without your having it all
laid before you. I suppose that we are absolutely safe from
eavesdroppers?'

"'Entirely.'

"'Then the matter stands thus. You are probably aware that
fuller's-earth is a valuable product, and that it is only found
in one or two places in England?'

"'I have heard so.'

"'Some little time ago I bought a small place--a very small
place--within ten miles of Reading. I was fortunate enough to
discover that there was a deposit of fuller's-earth in one of my
fields. On examining it, however, I found that this deposit was a
comparatively small one, and that it formed a link between two
very much larger ones upon the right and left--both of them,
however, in the grounds of my neighbours. These good people were
absolutely ignorant that their land contained that which was
quite as valuable as a gold-mine. Naturally, it was to my
interest to buy their land before they discovered its true value,
but unfortunately I had no capital by which I could do this. I
took a few of my friends into the secret, however, and they
suggested that we should quietly and secretly work our own little
deposit and that in this way we should earn the money which would
enable us to buy the neighbouring fields. This we have now been
doing for some time, and in order to help us in our operations we
erected a hydraulic press. This press, as I have already
explained, has got out of order, and we wish your advice upon the
subject. We guard our secret very jealously, however, and if it
once became known that we had hydraulic engineers coming to our
little house, it would soon rouse inquiry, and then, if the facts
came out, it would be good-bye to any chance of getting these
fields and carrying out our plans. That is why I have made you
promise me that you will not tell a human being that you are
going to Eyford to-night. I hope that I make it all plain?'

"'I quite follow you,' said I. 'The only point which I could not
quite understand was what use you could make of a hydraulic press
in excavating fuller's-earth, which, as I understand, is dug out
like gravel from a pit.'

"'Ah!' said he carelessly, 'we have our own process. We compress
the earth into bricks, so as to remove them without revealing
what they are. But that is a mere detail. I have taken you fully
into my confidence now, Mr. Hatherley, and I have shown you how I
trust you.' He rose as he spoke. 'I shall expect you, then, at
Eyford at 11:15.'

"'I shall certainly be there.'

"'And not a word to a soul.' He looked at me with a last long,
questioning gaze, and then, pressing my hand in a cold, dank
grasp, he hurried from the room.

"Well, when I came to think it all over in cool blood I was very
much astonished, as you may both think, at this sudden commission
which had been intrusted to me. On the one hand, of course, I was
glad, for the fee was at least tenfold what I should have asked
had I set a price upon my own services, and it was possible that
this order might lead to other ones. On the other hand, the face
and manner of my patron had made an unpleasant impression upon
me, and I could not think that his explanation of the
fuller's-earth was sufficient to explain the necessity for my
coming at midnight, and his extreme anxiety lest I should tell
anyone of my errand. However, I threw all fears to the winds, ate
a hearty supper, drove to Paddington, and started off, having
obeyed to the letter the injunction as to holding my tongue.

"At Reading I had to change not only my carriage but my station.
However, I was in time for the last train to Eyford, and I
reached the little dim-lit station after eleven o'clock. I was the
only passenger who got out there, and there was no one upon the
platform save a single sleepy porter with a lantern. As I passed
out through the wicket gate, however, I found my acquaintance of
the morning waiting in the shadow upon the other side. Without a
word he grasped my arm and hurried me into a carriage, the door
of which was standing open. He drew up the windows on either
side, tapped on the wood-work, and away we went as fast as the
horse could go."

"One horse?" interjected Holmes.

"Yes, only one."

"Did you observe the colour?"

"Yes, I saw it by the side-lights when I was stepping into the
carriage. It was a chestnut."

"Tired-looking or fresh?"

"Oh, fresh and glossy."

"Thank you. I am sorry to have interrupted you. Pray continue
your most interesting statement."

"Away we went then, and we drove for at least an hour. Colonel
Lysander Stark had said that it was only seven miles, but I
should think, from the rate that we seemed to go, and from the
time that we took, that it must have been nearer twelve. He sat
at my side in silence all the time, and I was aware, more than
once when I glanced in his direction, that he was looking at me
with great intensity. The country roads seem to be not very good
in that part of the world, for we lurched and jolted terribly. I
tried to look out of the windows to see something of where we
were, but they were made of frosted glass, and I could make out
nothing save the occasional bright blur of a passing light. Now
and then I hazarded some remark to break the monotony of the
journey, but the colonel answered only in monosyllables, and the
conversation soon flagged. At last, however, the bumping of the
road was exchanged for the crisp smoothness of a gravel-drive,
and the carriage came to a stand. Colonel Lysander Stark sprang
out, and, as I followed after him, pulled me swiftly into a porch
which gaped in front of us. We stepped, as it were, right out of
the carriage and into the hall, so that I failed to catch the
most fleeting glance of the front of the house. The instant that
I had crossed the threshold the door slammed heavily behind us,
and I heard faintly the rattle of the wheels as the carriage
drove away.

"It was pitch dark inside the house, and the colonel fumbled
about looking for matches and muttering under his breath.
Suddenly a door opened at the other end of the passage, and a
long, golden bar of light shot out in our direction. It grew
broader, and a woman appeared with a lamp in her hand, which she
held above her head, pushing her face forward and peering at us.
I could see that she was pretty, and from the gloss with which
the light shone upon her dark dress I knew that it was a rich
material. She spoke a few words in a foreign tongue in a tone as
though asking a question, and when my companion answered in a
gruff monosyllable she gave such a start that the lamp nearly
fell from her hand. Colonel Stark went up to her, whispered
something in her ear, and then, pushing her back into the room
from whence she had come, he walked towards me again with the
lamp in his hand.

"'Perhaps you will have the kindness to wait in this room for a
few minutes,' said he, throwing open another door. It was a
quiet, little, plainly furnished room, with a round table in the
centre, on which several German books were scattered. Colonel
Stark laid down the lamp on the top of a harmonium beside the
door. 'I shall not keep you waiting an instant,' said he, and
vanished into the darkness.

"I glanced at the books upon the table, and in spite of my
ignorance of German I could see that two of them were treatises
on science, the others being volumes of poetry. Then I walked
across to the window, hoping that I might catch some glimpse of
the country-side, but an oak shutter, heavily barred, was folded
across it. It was a wonderfully silent house. There was an old
clock ticking loudly somewhere in the passage, but otherwise
everything was deadly still. A vague feeling of uneasiness began
to steal over me. Who were these German people, and what were
they doing living in this strange, out-of-the-way place? And
where was the place? I was ten miles or so from Eyford, that was
all I knew, but whether north, south, east, or west I had no
idea. For that matter, Reading, and possibly other large towns,
were within that radius, so the place might not be so secluded,
after all. Yet it was quite certain, from the absolute stillness,
that we were in the country. I paced up and down the room,
humming a tune under my breath to keep up my spirits and feeling
that I was thoroughly earning my fifty-guinea fee.

"Suddenly, without any preliminary sound in the midst of the
utter stillness, the door of my room swung slowly open. The woman
was standing in the aperture, the darkness of the hall behind
her, the yellow light from my lamp beating upon her eager and
beautiful face. I could see at a glance that she was sick with
fear, and the sight sent a chill to my own heart. She held up one
shaking finger to warn me to be silent, and she shot a few
whispered words of broken English at me, her eyes glancing back,
like those of a frightened horse, into the gloom behind her.

"'I would go,' said she, trying hard, as it seemed to me, to
speak calmly; 'I would go. I should not stay here. There is no
good for you to do.'

"'But, madam,' said I, 'I have not yet done what I came for. I
cannot possibly leave until I have seen the machine.'

"'It is not worth your while to wait,' she went on. 'You can pass
through the door; no one hinders.' And then, seeing that I smiled
and shook my head, she suddenly threw aside her constraint and
made a step forward, with her hands wrung together. 'For the love
of Heaven!' she whispered, 'get away from here before it is too
late!'

"But I am somewhat headstrong by nature, and the more ready to
engage in an affair when there is some obstacle in the way. I
thought of my fifty-guinea fee, of my wearisome journey, and of
the unpleasant night which seemed to be before me. Was it all to
go for nothing? Why should I slink away without having carried
out my commission, and without the payment which was my due? This
woman might, for all I knew, be a monomaniac. With a stout
bearing, therefore, though her manner had shaken me more than I
cared to confess, I still shook my head and declared my intention
of remaining where I was. She was about to renew her entreaties
when a door slammed overhead, and the sound of several footsteps
was heard upon the stairs. She listened for an instant, threw up
her hands with a despairing gesture, and vanished as suddenly and
as noiselessly as she had come.

"The newcomers were Colonel Lysander Stark and a short thick man
with a chinchilla beard growing out of the creases of his double
chin, who was introduced to me as Mr. Ferguson.

"'This is my secretary and manager,' said the colonel. 'By the
way, I was under the impression that I left this door shut just
now. I fear that you have felt the draught.'

"'On the contrary,' said I, 'I opened the door myself because I
felt the room to be a little close.'

"He shot one of his suspicious looks at me. 'Perhaps we had
better proceed to business, then,' said he. 'Mr. Ferguson and I
will take you up to see the machine.'

"'I had better put my hat on, I suppose.'

"'Oh, no, it is in the house.'

"'What, you dig fuller's-earth in the house?'

"'No, no. This is only where we compress it. But never mind that.
All we wish you to do is to examine the machine and to let us
know what is wrong with it.'

"We went upstairs together, the colonel first with the lamp, the
fat manager and I behind him. It was a labyrinth of an old house,
with corridors, passages, narrow winding staircases, and little
low doors, the thresholds of which were hollowed out by the
generations who had crossed them. There were no carpets and no
signs of any furniture above the ground floor, while the plaster
was peeling off the walls, and the damp was breaking through in
green, unhealthy blotches. I tried to put on as unconcerned an
air as possible, but I had not forgotten the warnings of the
lady, even though I disregarded them, and I kept a keen eye upon
my two companions. Ferguson appeared to be a morose and silent
man, but I could see from the little that he said that he was at
least a fellow-countryman.

"Colonel Lysander Stark stopped at last before a low door, which
he unlocked. Within was a small, square room, in which the three
of us could hardly get at one time. Ferguson remained outside,
and the colonel ushered me in.

"'We are now,' said he, 'actually within the hydraulic press, and
it would be a particularly unpleasant thing for us if anyone were
to turn it on. The ceiling of this small chamber is really the
end of the descending piston, and it comes down with the force of
many tons upon this metal floor. There are small lateral columns
of water outside which receive the force, and which transmit and
multiply it in the manner which is familiar to you. The machine
goes readily enough, but there is some stiffness in the working
of it, and it has lost a little of its force. Perhaps you will
have the goodness to look it over and to show us how we can set
it right.'

"I took the lamp from him, and I examined the machine very
thoroughly. It was indeed a gigantic one, and capable of
exercising enormous pressure. When I passed outside, however, and
pressed down the levers which controlled it, I knew at once by
the whishing sound that there was a slight leakage, which allowed
a regurgitation of water through one of the side cylinders. An
examination showed that one of the india-rubber bands which was
round the head of a driving-rod had shrunk so as not quite to
fill the socket along which it worked. This was clearly the cause
of the loss of power, and I pointed it out to my companions, who
followed my remarks very carefully and asked several practical
questions as to how they should proceed to set it right. When I
had made it clear to them, I returned to the main chamber of the
machine and took a good look at it to satisfy my own curiosity.
It was obvious at a glance that the story of the fuller's-earth
was the merest fabrication, for it would be absurd to suppose
that so powerful an engine could be designed for so inadequate a
purpose. The walls were of wood, but the floor consisted of a
large iron trough, and when I came to examine it I could see a
crust of metallic deposit all over it. I had stooped and was
scraping at this to see exactly what it was when I heard a
muttered exclamation in German and saw the cadaverous face of the
colonel looking down at me.

"'What are you doing there?' he asked.

"I felt angry at having been tricked by so elaborate a story as
that which he had told me. 'I was admiring your fuller's-earth,'
said I; 'I think that I should be better able to advise you as to
your machine if I knew what the exact purpose was for which it
was used.'

"The instant that I uttered the words I regretted the rashness of
my speech. His face set hard, and a baleful light sprang up in
his grey eyes.

"'Very well,' said he, 'you shall know all about the machine.' He
took a step backward, slammed the little door, and turned the key
in the lock. I rushed towards it and pulled at the handle, but it
was quite secure, and did not give in the least to my kicks and
shoves. 'Hullo!' I yelled. 'Hullo! Colonel! Let me out!'

"And then suddenly in the silence I heard a sound which sent my
heart into my mouth. It was the clank of the levers and the swish
of the leaking cylinder. He had set the engine at work. The lamp
still stood upon the floor where I had placed it when examining
the trough. By its light I saw that the black ceiling was coming
down upon me, slowly, jerkily, but, as none knew better than
myself, with a force which must within a minute grind me to a
shapeless pulp. I threw myself, screaming, against the door, and
dragged with my nails at the lock. I implored the colonel to let
me out, but the remorseless clanking of the levers drowned my
cries. The ceiling was only a foot or two above my head, and with
my hand upraised I could feel its hard, rough surface. Then it
flashed through my mind that the pain of my death would depend
very much upon the position in which I met it. If I lay on my
face the weight would come upon my spine, and I shuddered to
think of that dreadful snap. Easier the other way, perhaps; and
yet, had I the nerve to lie and look up at that deadly black
shadow wavering down upon me? Already I was unable to stand
erect, when my eye caught something which brought a gush of hope
back to my heart.

"I have said that though the floor and ceiling were of iron, the
walls were of wood. As I gave a last hurried glance around, I saw
a thin line of yellow light between two of the boards, which
broadened and broadened as a small panel was pushed backward. For
an instant I could hardly believe that here was indeed a door
which led away from death. The next instant I threw myself
through, and lay half-fainting upon the other side. The panel had
closed again behind me, but the crash of the lamp, and a few
moments afterwards the clang of the two slabs of metal, told me
how narrow had been my escape.

"I was recalled to myself by a frantic plucking at my wrist, and
I found myself lying upon the stone floor of a narrow corridor,
while a woman bent over me and tugged at me with her left hand,
while she held a candle in her right. It was the same good friend
whose warning I had so foolishly rejected.

"'Come! come!' she cried breathlessly. 'They will be here in a
moment. They will see that you are not there. Oh, do not waste
the so-precious time, but come!'

"This time, at least, I did not scorn her advice. I staggered to
my feet and ran with her along the corridor and down a winding
stair. The latter led to another broad passage, and just as we
reached it we heard the sound of running feet and the shouting of
two voices, one answering the other from the floor on which  we
were and from the one beneath. My guide stopped and looked about
her like one  who is at her wit's end. Then she threw open a door
which led into a bedroom, through the window of which the moon
was shining brightly.

"'It is your only chance,' said she. 'It is high, but it may be
that you can jump it.'

"As she spoke a light sprang into view at the further end of the
passage, and I saw the lean figure of Colonel Lysander Stark
rushing forward with a lantern in one hand and a weapon like a
butcher's cleaver in the other. I rushed across the bedroom,
flung open the window, and looked out. How quiet and sweet and
wholesome the garden looked in the moonlight, and it could not be
more than thirty feet down. I clambered out upon the sill, but I
hesitated to jump until I should have heard what passed between
my saviour and the ruffian who pursued me. If she were ill-used,
then at any risks I was determined to go back to her assistance.
The thought had hardly flashed through my mind before he was at
the door, pushing his way past her; but she threw her arms round
him and tried to hold him back.

"'Fritz! Fritz!' she cried in English, 'remember your promise
after the last time. You said it should not be again. He will be
silent! Oh, he will be silent!'

"'You are mad, Elise!' he shouted, struggling to break away from
her. 'You will be the ruin of us. He has seen too much. Let me
pass, I say!' He dashed her to one side, and, rushing to the
window, cut at me with his heavy weapon. I had let myself go, and
was hanging by the hands to the sill, when his blow fell. I was
conscious of a dull pain, my grip loosened, and I fell into the
garden below.

"I was shaken but not hurt by the fall; so I picked myself up and
rushed off among the bushes as hard as I could run, for I
understood that I was far from being out of danger yet. Suddenly,
however, as I ran, a deadly dizziness and sickness came over me.
I glanced down at my hand, which was throbbing painfully, and
then, for the first time, saw that my thumb had been cut off and
that the blood was pouring from my wound. I endeavoured to tie my
handkerchief round it, but there came a sudden buzzing in my
ears, and next moment I fell in a dead faint among the
rose-bushes.

"How long I remained unconscious I cannot tell. It must have been
a very long time, for the moon had sunk, and a bright morning was
breaking when I came to myself. My clothes were all sodden with
dew, and my coat-sleeve was drenched with blood from my wounded
thumb. The smarting of it recalled in an instant all the
particulars of my night's adventure, and I sprang to my feet with
the feeling that I might hardly yet be safe from my pursuers. But
to my astonishment, when I came to look round me, neither house
nor garden were to be seen. I had been lying in an angle of the
hedge close by the highroad, and just a little lower down was a
long building, which proved, upon my approaching it, to be the
very station at which I had arrived upon the previous night. Were
it not for the ugly wound upon my hand, all that had passed
during those dreadful hours might have been an evil dream.

"Half dazed, I went into the station and asked about the morning
train. There would be one to Reading in less than an hour. The
same porter was on duty, I found, as had been there when I
arrived. I inquired of him whether he had ever heard of Colonel
Lysander Stark. The name was strange to him. Had he observed a
carriage the night before waiting for me? No, he had not. Was
there a police-station anywhere near? There was one about three
miles off.

"It was too far for me to go, weak and ill as I was. I determined
to wait until I got back to town before telling my story to the
police. It was a little past six when I arrived, so I went first
to have my wound dressed, and then the doctor was kind enough to
bring me along here. I put the case into your hands and shall do
exactly what you advise."

We both sat in silence for some little time after listening to
this extraordinary narrative. Then Sherlock Holmes pulled down
from the shelf one of the ponderous commonplace books in which he
placed his cuttings.

"Here is an advertisement which will interest you," said he. "It
appeared in all the papers about a year ago. Listen to this:
'Lost, on the 9th inst., Mr. Jeremiah Hayling, aged
twenty-six, a hydraulic engineer. Left his lodgings at ten
o'clock at night, and has not been heard of since. Was
dressed in,' etc., etc. Ha! That represents the last time that
the colonel needed to have his machine overhauled, I fancy."

"Good heavens!" cried my patient. "Then that explains what the
girl said."

"Undoubtedly. It is quite clear that the colonel was a cool and
desperate man, who was absolutely determined that nothing should
stand in the way of his little game, like those out-and-out
pirates who will leave no survivor from a captured ship. Well,
every moment now is precious, so if you feel equal to it we shall
go down to Scotland Yard at once as a preliminary to starting for
Eyford."

Some three hours or so afterwards we were all in the train
together, bound from Reading to the little Berkshire village.
There were Sherlock Holmes, the hydraulic engineer, Inspector
Bradstreet, of Scotland Yard, a plain-clothes man, and myself.
Bradstreet had spread an ordnance map of the county out upon the
seat and was busy with his compasses drawing a circle with Eyford
for its centre.

"There you are," said he. "That circle is drawn at a radius of
ten miles from the village. The place we want must be somewhere
near that line. You said ten miles, I think, sir."

"It was an hour's good drive."

"And you think that they brought you back all that way when you
were unconscious?"

"They must have done so. I have a confused memory, too, of having
been lifted and conveyed somewhere."

"What I cannot understand," said I, "is why they should have
spared you when they found you lying fainting in the garden.
Perhaps the villain was softened by the woman's entreaties."

"I hardly think that likely. I never saw a more inexorable face
in my life."

"Oh, we shall soon clear up all that," said Bradstreet. "Well, I
have drawn my circle, and I only wish I knew at what point upon
it the folk that we are in search of are to be found."

"I think I could lay my finger on it," said Holmes quietly.

"Really, now!" cried the inspector, "you have formed your
opinion! Come, now, we shall see who agrees with you. I say it is
south, for the country is more deserted there."

"And I say east," said my patient.

"I am for west," remarked the plain-clothes man. "There are
several quiet little villages up there."

"And I am for north," said I, "because there are no hills there,
and our friend says that he did not notice the carriage go up
any."

"Come," cried the inspector, laughing; "it's a very pretty
diversity of opinion. We have boxed the compass among us. Who do
you give your casting vote to?"

"You are all wrong."

"But we can't all be."

"Oh, yes, you can. This is my point." He placed his finger in the
centre of the circle. "This is where we shall find them."

"But the twelve-mile drive?" gasped Hatherley.

"Six out and six back. Nothing simpler. You say yourself that the
horse was fresh and glossy when you got in. How could it be that
if it had gone twelve miles over heavy roads?"

"Indeed, it is a likely ruse enough," observed Bradstreet
thoughtfully. "Of course there can be no doubt as to the nature
of this gang."

"None at all," said Holmes. "They are coiners on a large scale,
and have used the machine to form the amalgam which has taken the
place of silver."

"We have known for some time that a clever gang was at work,"
said the inspector. "They have been turning out half-crowns by
the thousand. We even traced them as far as Reading, but could
get no farther, for they had covered their traces in a way that
showed that they were very old hands. But now, thanks to this
lucky chance, I think that we have got them right enough."

But the inspector was mistaken, for those criminals were not
destined to fall into the hands of justice. As we rolled into
Eyford Station we saw a gigantic column of smoke which streamed
up from behind a small clump of trees in the neighbourhood and
hung like an immense ostrich feather over the landscape.

"A house on fire?" asked Bradstreet as the train steamed off
again on its way.

"Yes, sir!" said the station-master.

"When did it break out?"

"I hear that it was during the night, sir, but it has got worse,
and the whole place is in a blaze."

"Whose house is it?"

"Dr. Becher's."

"Tell me," broke in the engineer, "is Dr. Becher a German, very
thin, with a long, sharp nose?"

The station-master laughed heartily. "No, sir, Dr. Becher is an
Englishman, and there isn't a man in the parish who has a
better-lined waistcoat. But he has a gentleman staying with him,
a patient, as I understand, who is a foreigner, and he looks as
if a little good Berkshire beef would do him no harm."

The station-master had not finished his speech before we were all
hastening in the direction of the fire. The road topped a low
hill, and there was a great widespread whitewashed building in
front of us, spouting fire at every chink and window, while in
the garden in front three fire-engines were vainly striving to
keep the flames under.

"That's it!" cried Hatherley, in intense excitement. "There is
the gravel-drive, and there are the rose-bushes where I lay. That
second window is the one that I jumped from."

"Well, at least," said Holmes, "you have had your revenge upon
them. There can be no question that it was your oil-lamp which,
when it was crushed in the press, set fire to the wooden walls,
though no doubt they were too excited in the chase after you to
observe it at the time. Now keep your eyes open in this crowd for
your friends of last night, though I very much fear that they are
a good hundred miles off by now."

And Holmes' fears came to be realised, for from that day to this
no word has ever been heard either of the beautiful woman, the
sinister German, or the morose Englishman. Early that morning a
peasant had met a cart containing several people and some very
bulky boxes driving rapidly in the direction of Reading, but
there all traces of the fugitives disappeared, and even Holmes'
ingenuity failed ever to discover the least clue as to their
whereabouts.

The firemen had been much perturbed at the strange arrangements
which they had found within, and still more so by discovering a
newly severed human thumb upon a window-sill of the second floor.
About sunset, however, their efforts were at last successful, and
they subdued the flames, but not before the roof had fallen in,
and the whole place been reduced to such absolute ruin that, save
some twisted cylinders and iron piping, not a trace remained of
the machinery which had cost our unfortunate acquaintance so
dearly. Large masses of nickel and of tin were discovered stored
in an out-house, but no coins were to be found, which may have
explained the presence of those bulky boxes which have been
already referred to.

How our hydraulic engineer had been conveyed from the garden to
the spot where he recovered his senses might have remained
forever a mystery were it not for the soft mould, which told us a
very plain tale. He had evidently been carried down by two
persons, one of whom had remarkably small feet and the other
unusually large ones. On the whole, it was most probable that the
silent Englishman, being less bold or less murderous than his
companion, had assisted the woman to bear the unconscious man out
of the way of danger.

"Well," said our engineer ruefully as we took our seats to return
once more to London, "it has been a pretty business for me! I
have lost my thumb and I have lost a fifty-guinea fee, and what
have I gained?"

"Experience," said Holmes, laughing. "Indirectly it may be of
value, you know; you have only to put it into words to gain the
reputation of being excellent company for the remainder of your
existence."



X. THE ADVENTURE OF THE NOBLE BACHELOR

The Lord St. Simon marriage, and its curious termination, have
long ceased to be a subject of interest in those exalted circles
in which the unfortunate bridegroom moves. Fresh scandals have
eclipsed it, and their more piquant details have drawn the
gossips away from this four-year-old drama. As I have reason to
believe, however, that the full facts have never been revealed to
the general public, and as my friend Sherlock Holmes had a
considerable share in clearing the matter up, I feel that no
memoir of him would be complete without some little sketch of
this remarkable episode.

It was a few weeks before my own marriage, during the days when I
was still sharing rooms with Holmes in Baker Street, that he came
home from an afternoon stroll to find a letter on the table
waiting for him. I had remained indoors all day, for the weather
had taken a sudden turn to rain, with high autumnal winds, and
the Jezail bullet which I had brought back in one of my limbs as
a relic of my Afghan campaign throbbed with dull persistence.
With my body in one easy-chair and my legs upon another, I had
surrounded myself with a cloud of newspapers until at last,
saturated with the news of the day, I tossed them all aside and
lay listless, watching the huge crest and monogram upon the
envelope upon the table and wondering lazily who my friend's
noble correspondent could be.

"Here is a very fashionable epistle," I remarked as he entered.
"Your morning letters, if I remember right, were from a
fish-monger and a tide-waiter."

"Yes, my correspondence has certainly the charm of variety," he
answered, smiling, "and the humbler are usually the more
interesting. This looks like one of those unwelcome social
summonses which call upon a man either to be bored or to lie."

He broke the seal and glanced over the contents.

"Oh, come, it may prove to be something of interest, after all."

"Not social, then?"

"No, distinctly professional."

"And from a noble client?"

"One of the highest in England."

"My dear fellow, I congratulate you."

"I assure you, Watson, without affectation, that the status of my
client is a matter of less moment to me than the interest of his
case. It is just possible, however, that that also may not be
wanting in this new investigation. You have been reading the
papers diligently of late, have you not?"

"It looks like it," said I ruefully, pointing to a huge bundle in
the corner. "I have had nothing else to do."

"It is fortunate, for you will perhaps be able to post me up. I
read nothing except the criminal news and the agony column. The
latter is always instructive. But if you have followed recent
events so closely you must have read about Lord St. Simon and his
wedding?"

"Oh, yes, with the deepest interest."

"That is well. The letter which I hold in my hand is from Lord
St. Simon. I will read it to you, and in return you must turn
over these papers and let me have whatever bears upon the matter.
This is what he says:

"'MY DEAR MR. SHERLOCK HOLMES:--Lord Backwater tells me that I
may place implicit reliance upon your judgment and discretion. I
have determined, therefore, to call upon you and to consult you
in reference to the very painful event which has occurred in
connection with my wedding. Mr. Lestrade, of Scotland Yard, is
acting already in the matter, but he assures me that he sees no
objection to your co-operation, and that he even thinks that
it might be of some assistance. I will call at four o'clock in
the afternoon, and, should you have any other engagement at that
time, I hope that you will postpone it, as this matter is of
paramount importance. Yours faithfully, ST. SIMON.'

"It is dated from Grosvenor Mansions, written with a quill pen,
and the noble lord has had the misfortune to get a smear of ink
upon the outer side of his right little finger," remarked Holmes
as he folded up the epistle.

"He says four o'clock. It is three now. He will be here in an
hour."

"Then I have just time, with your assistance, to get clear upon
the subject. Turn over those papers and arrange the extracts in
their order of time, while I take a glance as to who our client
is." He picked a red-covered volume from a line of books of
reference beside the mantelpiece. "Here he is," said he, sitting
down and flattening it out upon his knee. "'Lord Robert Walsingham
de Vere St. Simon, second son of the Duke of Balmoral.' Hum! 'Arms:
Azure, three caltrops in chief over a fess sable. Born in 1846.'
He's forty-one years of age, which is mature for marriage. Was
Under-Secretary for the colonies in a late administration. The
Duke, his father, was at one time Secretary for Foreign Affairs.
They inherit Plantagenet blood by direct descent, and Tudor on
the distaff side. Ha! Well, there is nothing very instructive in
all this. I think that I must turn to you Watson, for something
more solid."

"I have very little difficulty in finding what I want," said I,
"for the facts are quite recent, and the matter struck me as
remarkable. I feared to refer them to you, however, as I knew
that you had an inquiry on hand and that you disliked the
intrusion of other matters."

"Oh, you mean the little problem of the Grosvenor Square
furniture van. That is quite cleared up now--though, indeed, it
was obvious from the first. Pray give me the results of your
newspaper selections."

"Here is the first notice which I can find. It is in the personal
column of the Morning Post, and dates, as you see, some weeks
back: 'A marriage has been arranged,' it says, 'and will, if
rumour is correct, very shortly take place, between Lord Robert
St. Simon, second son of the Duke of Balmoral, and Miss Hatty
Doran, the only daughter of Aloysius Doran. Esq., of San
Francisco, Cal., U.S.A.' That is all."

"Terse and to the point," remarked Holmes, stretching his long,
thin legs towards the fire.

"There was a paragraph amplifying this in one of the society
papers of the same week. Ah, here it is: 'There will soon be a
call for protection in the marriage market, for the present
free-trade principle appears to tell heavily against our home
product. One by one the management of the noble houses of Great
Britain is passing into the hands of our fair cousins from across
the Atlantic. An important addition has been made during the last
week to the list of the prizes which have been borne away by
these charming invaders. Lord St. Simon, who has shown himself
for over twenty years proof against the little god's arrows, has
now definitely announced his approaching marriage with Miss Hatty
Doran, the fascinating daughter of a California millionaire. Miss
Doran, whose graceful figure and striking face attracted much
attention at the Westbury House festivities, is an only child,
and it is currently reported that her dowry will run to
considerably over the six figures, with expectancies for the
future. As it is an open secret that the Duke of Balmoral has
been compelled to sell his pictures within the last few years,
and as Lord St. Simon has no property of his own save the small
estate of Birchmoor, it is obvious that the Californian heiress
is not the only gainer by an alliance which will enable her to
make the easy and common transition from a Republican lady to a
British peeress.'"

"Anything else?" asked Holmes, yawning.

"Oh, yes; plenty. Then there is another note in the Morning Post
to say that the marriage would be an absolutely quiet one, that it
would be at St. George's, Hanover Square, that only half a dozen
intimate friends would be invited, and that the party would
return to the furnished house at Lancaster Gate which has been
taken by Mr. Aloysius Doran. Two days later--that is, on
Wednesday last--there is a curt announcement that the wedding had
taken place, and that the honeymoon would be passed at Lord
Backwater's place, near Petersfield. Those are all the notices
which appeared before the disappearance of the bride."

"Before the what?" asked Holmes with a start.

"The vanishing of the lady."

"When did she vanish, then?"

"At the wedding breakfast."

"Indeed. This is more interesting than it promised to be; quite
dramatic, in fact."

"Yes; it struck me as being a little out of the common."

"They often vanish before the ceremony, and occasionally during
the honeymoon; but I cannot call to mind anything quite so prompt
as this. Pray let me have the details."

"I warn you that they are very incomplete."

"Perhaps we may make them less so."

"Such as they are, they are set forth in a single article of a
morning paper of yesterday, which I will read to you. It is
headed, 'Singular Occurrence at a Fashionable Wedding':

"'The family of Lord Robert St. Simon has been thrown into the
greatest consternation by the strange and painful episodes which
have taken place in connection with his wedding. The ceremony, as
shortly announced in the papers of yesterday, occurred on the
previous morning; but it is only now that it has been possible to
confirm the strange rumours which have been so persistently
floating about. In spite of the attempts of the friends to hush
the matter up, so much public attention has now been drawn to it
that no good purpose can be served by affecting to disregard what
is a common subject for conversation.

"'The ceremony, which was performed at St. George's, Hanover
Square, was a very quiet one, no one being present save the
father of the bride, Mr. Aloysius Doran, the Duchess of Balmoral,
Lord Backwater, Lord Eustace and Lady Clara St. Simon (the
younger brother and sister of the bridegroom), and Lady Alicia
Whittington. The whole party proceeded afterwards to the house of
Mr. Aloysius Doran, at Lancaster Gate, where breakfast had been
prepared. It appears that some little trouble was caused by a
woman, whose name has not been ascertained, who endeavoured to
force her way into the house after the bridal party, alleging
that she had some claim upon Lord St. Simon. It was only after a
painful and prolonged scene that she was ejected by the butler
and the footman. The bride, who had fortunately entered the house
before this unpleasant interruption, had sat down to breakfast
with the rest, when she complained of a sudden indisposition and
retired to her room. Her prolonged absence having caused some
comment, her father followed her, but learned from her maid that
she had only come up to her chamber for an instant, caught up an
ulster and bonnet, and hurried down to the passage. One of the
footmen declared that he had seen a lady leave the house thus
apparelled, but had refused to credit that it was his mistress,
believing her to be with the company. On ascertaining that his
daughter had disappeared, Mr. Aloysius Doran, in conjunction with
the bridegroom, instantly put themselves in communication with
the police, and very energetic inquiries are being made, which
will probably result in a speedy clearing up of this very
singular business. Up to a late hour last night, however, nothing
had transpired as to the whereabouts of the missing lady. There
are rumours of foul play in the matter, and it is said that the
police have caused the arrest of the woman who had caused the
original disturbance, in the belief that, from jealousy or some
other motive, she may have been concerned in the strange
disappearance of the bride.'"

"And is that all?"

"Only one little item in another of the morning papers, but it is
a suggestive one."

"And it is--"

"That Miss Flora Millar, the lady who had caused the disturbance,
has actually been arrested. It appears that she was formerly a
danseuse at the Allegro, and that she has known the bridegroom
for some years. There are no further particulars, and the whole
case is in your hands now--so far as it has been set forth in the
public press."

"And an exceedingly interesting case it appears to be. I would
not have missed it for worlds. But there is a ring at the bell,
Watson, and as the clock makes it a few minutes after four, I
have no doubt that this will prove to be our noble client. Do not
dream of going, Watson, for I very much prefer having a witness,
if only as a check to my own memory."

"Lord Robert St. Simon," announced our page-boy, throwing open
the door. A gentleman entered, with a pleasant, cultured face,
high-nosed and pale, with something perhaps of petulance about
the mouth, and with the steady, well-opened eye of a man whose
pleasant lot it had ever been to command and to be obeyed. His
manner was brisk, and yet his general appearance gave an undue
impression of age, for he had a slight forward stoop and a little
bend of the knees as he walked. His hair, too, as he swept off
his very curly-brimmed hat, was grizzled round the edges and thin
upon the top. As to his dress, it was careful to the verge of
foppishness, with high collar, black frock-coat, white waistcoat,
yellow gloves, patent-leather shoes, and light-coloured gaiters.
He advanced slowly into the room, turning his head from left to
right, and swinging in his right hand the cord which held his
golden eyeglasses.

"Good-day, Lord St. Simon," said Holmes, rising and bowing. "Pray
take the basket-chair. This is my friend and colleague, Dr.
Watson. Draw up a little to the fire, and we will talk this
matter over."

"A most painful matter to me, as you can most readily imagine,
Mr. Holmes. I have been cut to the quick. I understand that you
have already managed several delicate cases of this sort, sir,
though I presume that they were hardly from the same class of
society."

"No, I am descending."

"I beg pardon."

"My last client of the sort was a king."

"Oh, really! I had no idea. And which king?"

"The King of Scandinavia."

"What! Had he lost his wife?"

"You can understand," said Holmes suavely, "that I extend to the
affairs of my other clients the same secrecy which I promise to
you in yours."

"Of course! Very right! very right! I'm sure I beg pardon. As to
my own case, I am ready to give you any information which may
assist you in forming an opinion."

"Thank you. I have already learned all that is in the public
prints, nothing more. I presume that I may take it as correct--this
article, for example, as to the disappearance of the bride."

Lord St. Simon glanced over it. "Yes, it is correct, as far as it
goes."

"But it needs a great deal of supplementing before anyone could
offer an opinion. I think that I may arrive at my facts most
directly by questioning you."

"Pray do so."

"When did you first meet Miss Hatty Doran?"

"In San Francisco, a year ago."

"You were travelling in the States?"

"Yes."

"Did you become engaged then?"

"No."

"But you were on a friendly footing?"

"I was amused by her society, and she could see that I was
amused."

"Her father is very rich?"

"He is said to be the richest man on the Pacific slope."

"And how did he make his money?"

"In mining. He had nothing a few years ago. Then he struck gold,
invested it, and came up by leaps and bounds."

"Now, what is your own impression as to the young lady's--your
wife's character?"

The nobleman swung his glasses a little faster and stared down
into the fire. "You see, Mr. Holmes," said he, "my wife was
twenty before her father became a rich man. During that time she
ran free in a mining camp and wandered through woods or
mountains, so that her education has come from Nature rather than
from the schoolmaster. She is what we call in England a tomboy,
with a strong nature, wild and free, unfettered by any sort of
traditions. She is impetuous--volcanic, I was about to say. She
is swift in making up her mind and fearless in carrying out her
resolutions. On the other hand, I would not have given her the
name which I have the honour to bear"--he gave a little stately
cough--"had not I thought her to be at bottom a noble woman. I
believe that she is capable of heroic self-sacrifice and that
anything dishonourable would be repugnant to her."

"Have you her photograph?"

"I brought this with me." He opened a locket and showed us the
full face of a very lovely woman. It was not a photograph but an
ivory miniature, and the artist had brought out the full effect
of the lustrous black hair, the large dark eyes, and the
exquisite mouth. Holmes gazed long and earnestly at it. Then he
closed the locket and handed it back to Lord St. Simon.

"The young lady came to London, then, and you renewed your
acquaintance?"

"Yes, her father brought her over for this last London season. I
met her several times, became engaged to her, and have now
married her."

"She brought, I understand, a considerable dowry?"

"A fair dowry. Not more than is usual in my family."

"And this, of course, remains to you, since the marriage is a
fait accompli?"

"I really have made no inquiries on the subject."

"Very naturally not. Did you see Miss Doran on the day before the
wedding?"

"Yes."

"Was she in good spirits?"

"Never better. She kept talking of what we should do in our
future lives."

"Indeed! That is very interesting. And on the morning of the
wedding?"

"She was as bright as possible--at least until after the
ceremony."

"And did you observe any change in her then?"

"Well, to tell the truth, I saw then the first signs that I had
ever seen that her temper was just a little sharp. The incident
however, was too trivial to relate and can have no possible
bearing upon the case."

"Pray let us have it, for all that."

"Oh, it is childish. She dropped her bouquet as we went towards
the vestry. She was passing the front pew at the time, and it
fell over into the pew. There was a moment's delay, but the
gentleman in the pew handed it up to her again, and it did not
appear to be the worse for the fall. Yet when I spoke to her of
the matter, she answered me abruptly; and in the carriage, on our
way home, she seemed absurdly agitated over this trifling cause."

"Indeed! You say that there was a gentleman in the pew. Some of
the general public were present, then?"

"Oh, yes. It is impossible to exclude them when the church is
open."

"This gentleman was not one of your wife's friends?"

"No, no; I call him a gentleman by courtesy, but he was quite a
common-looking person. I hardly noticed his appearance. But
really I think that we are wandering rather far from the point."

"Lady St. Simon, then, returned from the wedding in a less
cheerful frame of mind than she had gone to it. What did she do
on re-entering her father's house?"

"I saw her in conversation with her maid."

"And who is her maid?"

"Alice is her name. She is an American and came from California
with her."

"A confidential servant?"

"A little too much so. It seemed to me that her mistress allowed
her to take great liberties. Still, of course, in America they
look upon these things in a different way."

"How long did she speak to this Alice?"

"Oh, a few minutes. I had something else to think of."

"You did not overhear what they said?"

"Lady St. Simon said something about 'jumping a claim.' She was
accustomed to use slang of the kind. I have no idea what she
meant."

"American slang is very expressive sometimes. And what did your
wife do when she finished speaking to her maid?"

"She walked into the breakfast-room."

"On your arm?"

"No, alone. She was very independent in little matters like that.
Then, after we had sat down for ten minutes or so, she rose
hurriedly, muttered some words of apology, and left the room. She
never came back."

"But this maid, Alice, as I understand, deposes that she went to
her room, covered her bride's dress with a long ulster, put on a
bonnet, and went out."

"Quite so. And she was afterwards seen walking into Hyde Park in
company with Flora Millar, a woman who is now in custody, and who
had already made a disturbance at Mr. Doran's house that
morning."

"Ah, yes. I should like a few particulars as to this young lady,
and your relations to her."

Lord St. Simon shrugged his shoulders and raised his eyebrows.
"We have been on a friendly footing for some years--I may say on
a very friendly footing. She used to be at the Allegro. I have
not treated her ungenerously, and she had no just cause of
complaint against me, but you know what women are, Mr. Holmes.
Flora was a dear little thing, but exceedingly hot-headed and
devotedly attached to me. She wrote me dreadful letters when she
heard that I was about to be married, and, to tell the truth, the
reason why I had the marriage celebrated so quietly was that I
feared lest there might be a scandal in the church. She came to
Mr. Doran's door just after we returned, and she endeavoured to
push her way in, uttering very abusive expressions towards my
wife, and even threatening her, but I had foreseen the
possibility of something of the sort, and I had two police
fellows there in private clothes, who soon pushed her out again.
She was quiet when she saw that there was no good in making a
row."

"Did your wife hear all this?"

"No, thank goodness, she did not."

"And she was seen walking with this very woman afterwards?"

"Yes. That is what Mr. Lestrade, of Scotland Yard, looks upon as
so serious. It is thought that Flora decoyed my wife out and laid
some terrible trap for her."

"Well, it is a possible supposition."

"You think so, too?"

"I did not say a probable one. But you do not yourself look upon
this as likely?"

"I do not think Flora would hurt a fly."

"Still, jealousy is a strange transformer of characters. Pray
what is your own theory as to what took place?"

"Well, really, I came to seek a theory, not to propound one. I
have given you all the facts. Since you ask me, however, I may
say that it has occurred to me as possible that the excitement of
this affair, the consciousness that she had made so immense a
social stride, had the effect of causing some little nervous
disturbance in my wife."

"In short, that she had become suddenly deranged?"

"Well, really, when I consider that she has turned her back--I
will not say upon me, but upon so much that many have aspired to
without success--I can hardly explain it in any other fashion."

"Well, certainly that is also a conceivable hypothesis," said
Holmes, smiling. "And now, Lord St. Simon, I think that I have
nearly all my data. May I ask whether you were seated at the
breakfast-table so that you could see out of the window?"

"We could see the other side of the road and the Park."

"Quite so. Then I do not think that I need to detain you longer.
I shall communicate with you."

"Should you be fortunate enough to solve this problem," said our
client, rising.

"I have solved it."

"Eh? What was that?"

"I say that I have solved it."

"Where, then, is my wife?"

"That is a detail which I shall speedily supply."

Lord St. Simon shook his head. "I am afraid that it will take
wiser heads than yours or mine," he remarked, and bowing in a
stately, old-fashioned manner he departed.

"It is very good of Lord St. Simon to honour my head by putting
it on a level with his own," said Sherlock Holmes, laughing. "I
think that I shall have a whisky and soda and a cigar after all
this cross-questioning. I had formed my conclusions as to the
case before our client came into the room."

"My dear Holmes!"

"I have notes of several similar cases, though none, as I
remarked before, which were quite as prompt. My whole examination
served to turn my conjecture into a certainty. Circumstantial
evidence is occasionally very convincing, as when you find a
trout in the milk, to quote Thoreau's example."

"But I have heard all that you have heard."

"Without, however, the knowledge of pre-existing cases which
serves me so well. There was a parallel instance in Aberdeen some
years back, and something on very much the same lines at Munich
the year after the Franco-Prussian War. It is one of these
cases--but, hullo, here is Lestrade! Good-afternoon, Lestrade!
You will find an extra tumbler upon the sideboard, and there are
cigars in the box."

The official detective was attired in a pea-jacket and cravat,
which gave him a decidedly nautical appearance, and he carried a
black canvas bag in his hand. With a short greeting he seated
himself and lit the cigar which had been offered to him.

"What's up, then?" asked Holmes with a twinkle in his eye. "You
look dissatisfied."

"And I feel dissatisfied. It is this infernal St. Simon marriage
case. I can make neither head nor tail of the business."

"Really! You surprise me."

"Who ever heard of such a mixed affair? Every clue seems to slip
through my fingers. I have been at work upon it all day."

"And very wet it seems to have made you," said Holmes laying his
hand upon the arm of the pea-jacket.

"Yes, I have been dragging the Serpentine."

"In heaven's name, what for?"

"In search of the body of Lady St. Simon."

Sherlock Holmes leaned back in his chair and laughed heartily.

"Have you dragged the basin of Trafalgar Square fountain?" he
asked.

"Why? What do you mean?"

"Because you have just as good a chance of finding this lady in
the one as in the other."

Lestrade shot an angry glance at my companion. "I suppose you
know all about it," he snarled.

"Well, I have only just heard the facts, but my mind is made up."

"Oh, indeed! Then you think that the Serpentine plays no part in
the matter?"

"I think it very unlikely."

"Then perhaps you will kindly explain how it is that we found
this in it?" He opened his bag as he spoke, and tumbled onto the
floor a wedding-dress of watered silk, a pair of white satin
shoes and a bride's wreath and veil, all discoloured and soaked
in water. "There," said he, putting a new wedding-ring upon the
top of the pile. "There is a little nut for you to crack, Master
Holmes."

"Oh, indeed!" said my friend, blowing blue rings into the air.
"You dragged them from the Serpentine?"

"No. They were found floating near the margin by a park-keeper.
They have been identified as her clothes, and it seemed to me
that if the clothes were there the body would not be far off."

"By the same brilliant reasoning, every man's body is to be found
in the neighbourhood of his wardrobe. And pray what did you hope
to arrive at through this?"

"At some evidence implicating Flora Millar in the disappearance."

"I am afraid that you will find it difficult."

"Are you, indeed, now?" cried Lestrade with some bitterness. "I
am afraid, Holmes, that you are not very practical with your
deductions and your inferences. You have made two blunders in as
many minutes. This dress does implicate Miss Flora Millar."

"And how?"

"In the dress is a pocket. In the pocket is a card-case. In the
card-case is a note. And here is the very note." He slapped it
down upon the table in front of him. "Listen to this: 'You will
see me when all is ready. Come at once. F.H.M.' Now my theory all
along has been that Lady St. Simon was decoyed away by Flora
Millar, and that she, with confederates, no doubt, was
responsible for her disappearance. Here, signed with her
initials, is the very note which was no doubt quietly slipped
into her hand at the door and which lured her within their
reach."

"Very good, Lestrade," said Holmes, laughing. "You really are
very fine indeed. Let me see it." He took up the paper in a
listless way, but his attention instantly became riveted, and he
gave a little cry of satisfaction. "This is indeed important,"
said he.

"Ha! you find it so?"

"Extremely so. I congratulate you warmly."

Lestrade rose in his triumph and bent his head to look. "Why," he
shrieked, "you're looking at the wrong side!"

"On the contrary, this is the right side."

"The right side? You're mad! Here is the note written in pencil
over here."

"And over here is what appears to be the fragment of a hotel
bill, which interests me deeply."

"There's nothing in it. I looked at it before," said Lestrade.
"'Oct. 4th, rooms 8s., breakfast 2s. 6d., cocktail 1s., lunch 2s.
6d., glass sherry, 8d.' I see nothing in that."

"Very likely not. It is most important, all the same. As to the
note, it is important also, or at least the initials are, so I
congratulate you again."

"I've wasted time enough," said Lestrade, rising. "I believe in
hard work and not in sitting by the fire spinning fine theories.
Good-day, Mr. Holmes, and we shall see which gets to the bottom
of the matter first." He gathered up the garments, thrust them
into the bag, and made for the door.

"Just one hint to you, Lestrade," drawled Holmes before his rival
vanished; "I will tell you the true solution of the matter. Lady
St. Simon is a myth. There is not, and there never has been, any
such person."

Lestrade looked sadly at my companion. Then he turned to me,
tapped his forehead three times, shook his head solemnly, and
hurried away.

He had hardly shut the door behind him when Holmes rose to put on
his overcoat. "There is something in what the fellow says about
outdoor work," he remarked, "so I think, Watson, that I must
leave you to your papers for a little."

It was after five o'clock when Sherlock Holmes left me, but I had
no time to be lonely, for within an hour there arrived a
confectioner's man with a very large flat box. This he unpacked
with the help of a youth whom he had brought with him, and
presently, to my very great astonishment, a quite epicurean
little cold supper began to be laid out upon our humble
lodging-house mahogany. There were a couple of brace of cold
woodcock, a pheasant, a pâté de foie gras pie with a group of
ancient and cobwebby bottles. Having laid out all these luxuries,
my two visitors vanished away, like the genii of the Arabian
Nights, with no explanation save that the things had been paid
for and were ordered to this address.

Just before nine o'clock Sherlock Holmes stepped briskly into the
room. His features were gravely set, but there was a light in his
eye which made me think that he had not been disappointed in his
conclusions.

"They have laid the supper, then," he said, rubbing his hands.

"You seem to expect company. They have laid for five."

"Yes, I fancy we may have some company dropping in," said he. "I
am surprised that Lord St. Simon has not already arrived. Ha! I
fancy that I hear his step now upon the stairs."

It was indeed our visitor of the afternoon who came bustling in,
dangling his glasses more vigorously than ever, and with a very
perturbed expression upon his aristocratic features.

"My messenger reached you, then?" asked Holmes.

"Yes, and I confess that the contents startled me beyond measure.
Have you good authority for what you say?"

"The best possible."

Lord St. Simon sank into a chair and passed his hand over his
forehead.

"What will the Duke say," he murmured, "when he hears that one of
the family has been subjected to such humiliation?"

"It is the purest accident. I cannot allow that there is any
humiliation."

"Ah, you look on these things from another standpoint."

"I fail to see that anyone is to blame. I can hardly see how the
lady could have acted otherwise, though her abrupt method of
doing it was undoubtedly to be regretted. Having no mother, she
had no one to advise her at such a crisis."

"It was a slight, sir, a public slight," said Lord St. Simon,
tapping his fingers upon the table.

"You must make allowance for this poor girl, placed in so
unprecedented a position."

"I will make no allowance. I am very angry indeed, and I have
been shamefully used."

"I think that I heard a ring," said Holmes. "Yes, there are steps
on the landing. If I cannot persuade you to take a lenient view
of the matter, Lord St. Simon, I have brought an advocate here
who may be more successful." He opened the door and ushered in a
lady and gentleman. "Lord St. Simon," said he "allow me to
introduce you to Mr. and Mrs. Francis Hay Moulton. The lady, I
think, you have already met."

At the sight of these newcomers our client had sprung from his
seat and stood very erect, with his eyes cast down and his hand
thrust into the breast of his frock-coat, a picture of offended
dignity. The lady had taken a quick step forward and had held out
her hand to him, but he still refused to raise his eyes. It was
as well for his resolution, perhaps, for her pleading face was
one which it was hard to resist.

"You're angry, Robert," said she. "Well, I guess you have every
cause to be."

"Pray make no apology to me," said Lord St. Simon bitterly.

"Oh, yes, I know that I have treated you real bad and that I
should have spoken to you before I went; but I was kind of
rattled, and from the time when I saw Frank here again I just
didn't know what I was doing or saying. I only wonder I didn't
fall down and do a faint right there before the altar."

"Perhaps, Mrs. Moulton, you would like my friend and me to leave
the room while you explain this matter?"

"If I may give an opinion," remarked the strange gentleman,
"we've had just a little too much secrecy over this business
already. For my part, I should like all Europe and America to
hear the rights of it." He was a small, wiry, sunburnt man,
clean-shaven, with a sharp face and alert manner.

"Then I'll tell our story right away," said the lady. "Frank here
and I met in '84, in McQuire's camp, near the Rockies, where pa
was working a claim. We were engaged to each other, Frank and I;
but then one day father struck a rich pocket and made a pile,
while poor Frank here had a claim that petered out and came to
nothing. The richer pa grew the poorer was Frank; so at last pa
wouldn't hear of our engagement lasting any longer, and he took
me away to 'Frisco. Frank wouldn't throw up his hand, though; so
he followed me there, and he saw me without pa knowing anything
about it. It would only have made him mad to know, so we just
fixed it all up for ourselves. Frank said that he would go and
make his pile, too, and never come back to claim me until he had
as much as pa. So then I promised to wait for him to the end of
time and pledged myself not to marry anyone else while he lived.
'Why shouldn't we be married right away, then,' said he, 'and
then I will feel sure of you; and I won't claim to be your
husband until I come back?' Well, we talked it over, and he had
fixed it all up so nicely, with a clergyman all ready in waiting,
that we just did it right there; and then Frank went off to seek
his fortune, and I went back to pa.

"The next I heard of Frank was that he was in Montana, and then
he went prospecting in Arizona, and then I heard of him from New
Mexico. After that came a long newspaper story about how a
miners' camp had been attacked by Apache Indians, and there was
my Frank's name among the killed. I fainted dead away, and I was
very sick for months after. Pa thought I had a decline and took
me to half the doctors in 'Frisco. Not a word of news came for a
year and more, so that I never doubted that Frank was really
dead. Then Lord St. Simon came to 'Frisco, and we came to London,
and a marriage was arranged, and pa was very pleased, but I felt
all the time that no man on this earth would ever take the place
in my heart that had been given to my poor Frank.

"Still, if I had married Lord St. Simon, of course I'd have done
my duty by him. We can't command our love, but we can our
actions. I went to the altar with him with the intention to make
him just as good a wife as it was in me to be. But you may
imagine what I felt when, just as I came to the altar rails, I
glanced back and saw Frank standing and looking at me out of the
first pew. I thought it was his ghost at first; but when I looked
again there he was still, with a kind of question in his eyes, as
if to ask me whether I were glad or sorry to see him. I wonder I
didn't drop. I know that everything was turning round, and the
words of the clergyman were just like the buzz of a bee in my
ear. I didn't know what to do. Should I stop the service and make
a scene in the church? I glanced at him again, and he seemed to
know what I was thinking, for he raised his finger to his lips to
tell me to be still. Then I saw him scribble on a piece of paper,
and I knew that he was writing me a note. As I passed his pew on
the way out I dropped my bouquet over to him, and he slipped the
note into my hand when he returned me the flowers. It was only a
line asking me to join him when he made the sign to me to do so.
Of course I never doubted for a moment that my first duty was now
to him, and I determined to do just whatever he might direct.

"When I got back I told my maid, who had known him in California,
and had always been his friend. I ordered her to say nothing, but
to get a few things packed and my ulster ready. I know I ought to
have spoken to Lord St. Simon, but it was dreadful hard before
his mother and all those great people. I just made up my mind to
run away and explain afterwards. I hadn't been at the table ten
minutes before I saw Frank out of the window at the other side of
the road. He beckoned to me and then began walking into the Park.
I slipped out, put on my things, and followed him. Some woman
came talking something or other about Lord St. Simon to
me--seemed to me from the little I heard as if he had a little
secret of his own before marriage also--but I managed to get away
from her and soon overtook Frank. We got into a cab together, and
away we drove to some lodgings he had taken in Gordon Square, and
that was my true wedding after all those years of waiting. Frank
had been a prisoner among the Apaches, had escaped, came on to
'Frisco, found that I had given him up for dead and had gone to
England, followed me there, and had come upon me at last on the
very morning of my second wedding."

"I saw it in a paper," explained the American. "It gave the name
and the church but not where the lady lived."

"Then we had a talk as to what we should do, and Frank was all
for openness, but I was so ashamed of it all that I felt as if I
should like to vanish away and never see any of them again--just
sending a line to pa, perhaps, to show him that I was alive. It
was awful to me to think of all those lords and ladies sitting
round that breakfast-table and waiting for me to come back. So
Frank took my wedding-clothes and things and made a bundle of
them, so that I should not be traced, and dropped them away
somewhere where no one could find them. It is likely that we
should have gone on to Paris to-morrow, only that this good
gentleman, Mr. Holmes, came round to us this evening, though how
he found us is more than I can think, and he showed us very
clearly and kindly that I was wrong and that Frank was right, and
that we should be putting ourselves in the wrong if we were so
secret. Then he offered to give us a chance of talking to Lord
St. Simon alone, and so we came right away round to his rooms at
once. Now, Robert, you have heard it all, and I am very sorry if
I have given you pain, and I hope that you do not think very
meanly of me."

Lord St. Simon had by no means relaxed his rigid attitude, but
had listened with a frowning brow and a compressed lip to this
long narrative.

"Excuse me," he said, "but it is not my custom to discuss my most
intimate personal affairs in this public manner."

"Then you won't forgive me? You won't shake hands before I go?"

"Oh, certainly, if it would give you any pleasure." He put out
his hand and coldly grasped that which she extended to him.

"I had hoped," suggested Holmes, "that you would have joined us
in a friendly supper."

"I think that there you ask a little too much," responded his
Lordship. "I may be forced to acquiesce in these recent
developments, but I can hardly be expected to make merry over
them. I think that with your permission I will now wish you all a
very good-night." He included us all in a sweeping bow and
stalked out of the room.

"Then I trust that you at least will honour me with your
company," said Sherlock Holmes. "It is always a joy to meet an
American, Mr. Moulton, for I am one of those who believe that the
folly of a monarch and the blundering of a minister in far-gone
years will not prevent our children from being some day citizens
of the same world-wide country under a flag which shall be a
quartering of the Union Jack with the Stars and Stripes."

"The case has been an interesting one," remarked Holmes when our
visitors had left us, "because it serves to show very clearly how
simple the explanation may be of an affair which at first sight
seems to be almost inexplicable. Nothing could be more natural
than the sequence of events as narrated by this lady, and nothing
stranger than the result when viewed, for instance, by Mr.
Lestrade of Scotland Yard."

"You were not yourself at fault at all, then?"

"From the first, two facts were very obvious to me, the one that
the lady had been quite willing to undergo the wedding ceremony,
the other that she had repented of it within a few minutes of
returning home. Obviously something had occurred during the
morning, then, to cause her to change her mind. What could that
something be? She could not have spoken to anyone when she was
out, for she had been in the company of the bridegroom. Had she
seen someone, then? If she had, it must be someone from America
because she had spent so short a time in this country that she
could hardly have allowed anyone to acquire so deep an influence
over her that the mere sight of him would induce her to change
her plans so completely. You see we have already arrived, by a
process of exclusion, at the idea that she might have seen an
American. Then who could this American be, and why should he
possess so much influence over her? It might be a lover; it might
be a husband. Her young womanhood had, I knew, been spent in
rough scenes and under strange conditions. So far I had got
before I ever heard Lord St. Simon's narrative. When he told us
of a man in a pew, of the change in the bride's manner, of so
transparent a device for obtaining a note as the dropping of a
bouquet, of her resort to her confidential maid, and of her very
significant allusion to claim-jumping--which in miners' parlance
means taking possession of that which another person has a prior
claim to--the whole situation became absolutely clear. She had
gone off with a man, and the man was either a lover or was a
previous husband--the chances being in favour of the latter."

"And how in the world did you find them?"

"It might have been difficult, but friend Lestrade held
information in his hands the value of which he did not himself
know. The initials were, of course, of the highest importance,
but more valuable still was it to know that within a week he had
settled his bill at one of the most select London hotels."

"How did you deduce the select?"

"By the select prices. Eight shillings for a bed and eightpence
for a glass of sherry pointed to one of the most expensive
hotels. There are not many in London which charge at that rate.
In the second one which I visited in Northumberland Avenue, I
learned by an inspection of the book that Francis H. Moulton, an
American gentleman, had left only the day before, and on looking
over the entries against him, I came upon the very items which I
had seen in the duplicate bill. His letters were to be forwarded
to 226 Gordon Square; so thither I travelled, and being fortunate
enough to find the loving couple at home, I ventured to give them
some paternal advice and to point out to them that it would be
better in every way that they should make their position a little
clearer both to the general public and to Lord St. Simon in
particular. I invited them to meet him here, and, as you see, I
made him keep the appointment."

"But with no very good result," I remarked. "His conduct was
certainly not very gracious."

"Ah, Watson," said Holmes, smiling, "perhaps you would not be
very gracious either, if, after all the trouble of wooing and
wedding, you found yourself deprived in an instant of wife and of
fortune. I think that we may judge Lord St. Simon very mercifully
and thank our stars that we are never likely to find ourselves in
the same position. Draw your chair up and hand me my violin, for
the only problem we have still to solve is how to while away
these bleak autumnal evenings."



XI. THE ADVENTURE OF THE BERYL CORONET

"Holmes," said I as I stood one morning in our bow-window looking
down the street, "here is a madman coming along. It seems rather
sad that his relatives should allow him to come out alone."

My friend rose lazily from his armchair and stood with his hands
in the pockets of his dressing-gown, looking over my shoulder. It
was a bright, crisp February morning, and the snow of the day
before still lay deep upon the ground, shimmering brightly in the
wintry sun. Down the centre of Baker Street it had been ploughed
into a brown crumbly band by the traffic, but at either side and
on the heaped-up edges of the foot-paths it still lay as white as
when it fell. The grey pavement had been cleaned and scraped, but
was still dangerously slippery, so that there were fewer
passengers than usual. Indeed, from the direction of the
Metropolitan Station no one was coming save the single gentleman
whose eccentric conduct had drawn my attention.

He was a man of about fifty, tall, portly, and imposing, with a
massive, strongly marked face and a commanding figure. He was
dressed in a sombre yet rich style, in black frock-coat, shining
hat, neat brown gaiters, and well-cut pearl-grey trousers. Yet
his actions were in absurd contrast to the dignity of his dress
and features, for he was running hard, with occasional little
springs, such as a weary man gives who is little accustomed to
set any tax upon his legs. As he ran he jerked his hands up and
down, waggled his head, and writhed his face into the most
extraordinary contortions.

"What on earth can be the matter with him?" I asked. "He is
looking up at the numbers of the houses."

"I believe that he is coming here," said Holmes, rubbing his
hands.

"Here?"

"Yes; I rather think he is coming to consult me professionally. I
think that I recognise the symptoms. Ha! did I not tell you?" As
he spoke, the man, puffing and blowing, rushed at our door and
pulled at our bell until the whole house resounded with the
clanging.

A few moments later he was in our room, still puffing, still
gesticulating, but with so fixed a look of grief and despair in
his eyes that our smiles were turned in an instant to horror and
pity. For a while he could not get his words out, but swayed his
body and plucked at his hair like one who has been driven to the
extreme limits of his reason. Then, suddenly springing to his
feet, he beat his head against the wall with such force that we
both rushed upon him and tore him away to the centre of the room.
Sherlock Holmes pushed him down into the easy-chair and, sitting
beside him, patted his hand and chatted with him in the easy,
soothing tones which he knew so well how to employ.

"You have come to me to tell your story, have you not?" said he.
"You are fatigued with your haste. Pray wait until you have
recovered yourself, and then I shall be most happy to look into
any little problem which you may submit to me."

The man sat for a minute or more with a heaving chest, fighting
against his emotion. Then he passed his handkerchief over his
brow, set his lips tight, and turned his face towards us.

"No doubt you think me mad?" said he.

"I see that you have had some great trouble," responded Holmes.

"God knows I have!--a trouble which is enough to unseat my
reason, so sudden and so terrible is it. Public disgrace I might
have faced, although I am a man whose character has never yet
borne a stain. Private affliction also is the lot of every man;
but the two coming together, and in so frightful a form, have
been enough to shake my very soul. Besides, it is not I alone.
The very noblest in the land may suffer unless some way be found
out of this horrible affair."

"Pray compose yourself, sir," said Holmes, "and let me have a
clear account of who you are and what it is that has befallen
you."

"My name," answered our visitor, "is probably familiar to your
ears. I am Alexander Holder, of the banking firm of Holder &
Stevenson, of Threadneedle Street."

The name was indeed well known to us as belonging to the senior
partner in the second largest private banking concern in the City
of London. What could have happened, then, to bring one of the
foremost citizens of London to this most pitiable pass? We
waited, all curiosity, until with another effort he braced
himself to tell his story.

"I feel that time is of value," said he; "that is why I hastened
here when the police inspector suggested that I should secure
your co-operation. I came to Baker Street by the Underground and
hurried from there on foot, for the cabs go slowly through this
snow. That is why I was so out of breath, for I am a man who
takes very little exercise. I feel better now, and I will put the
facts before you as shortly and yet as clearly as I can.

"It is, of course, well known to you that in a successful banking
business as much depends upon our being able to find remunerative
investments for our funds as upon our increasing our connection
and the number of our depositors. One of our most lucrative means
of laying out money is in the shape of loans, where the security
is unimpeachable. We have done a good deal in this direction
during the last few years, and there are many noble families to
whom we have advanced large sums upon the security of their
pictures, libraries, or plate.

"Yesterday morning I was seated in my office at the bank when a
card was brought in to me by one of the clerks. I started when I
saw the name, for it was that of none other than--well, perhaps
even to you I had better say no more than that it was a name
which is a household word all over the earth--one of the highest,
noblest, most exalted names in England. I was overwhelmed by the
honour and attempted, when he entered, to say so, but he plunged
at once into business with the air of a man who wishes to hurry
quickly through a disagreeable task.

"'Mr. Holder,' said he, 'I have been informed that you are in the
habit of advancing money.'

"'The firm does so when the security is good.' I answered.

"'It is absolutely essential to me,' said he, 'that I should have
50,000 pounds at once. I could, of course, borrow so trifling a
sum ten times over from my friends, but I much prefer to make it
a matter of business and to carry out that business myself. In my
position you can readily understand that it is unwise to place
one's self under obligations.'

"'For how long, may I ask, do you want this sum?' I asked.

"'Next Monday I have a large sum due to me, and I shall then most
certainly repay what you advance, with whatever interest you
think it right to charge. But it is very essential to me that the
money should be paid at once.'

"'I should be happy to advance it without further parley from my
own private purse,' said I, 'were it not that the strain would be
rather more than it could bear. If, on the other hand, I am to do
it in the name of the firm, then in justice to my partner I must
insist that, even in your case, every businesslike precaution
should be taken.'

"'I should much prefer to have it so,' said he, raising up a
square, black morocco case which he had laid beside his chair.
'You have doubtless heard of the Beryl Coronet?'

"'One of the most precious public possessions of the empire,'
said I.

"'Precisely.' He opened the case, and there, imbedded in soft,
flesh-coloured velvet, lay the magnificent piece of jewellery
which he had named. 'There are thirty-nine enormous beryls,' said
he, 'and the price of the gold chasing is incalculable. The
lowest estimate would put the worth of the coronet at double the
sum which I have asked. I am prepared to leave it with you as my
security.'

"I took the precious case into my hands and looked in some
perplexity from it to my illustrious client.

"'You doubt its value?' he asked.

"'Not at all. I only doubt--'

"'The propriety of my leaving it. You may set your mind at rest
about that. I should not dream of doing so were it not absolutely
certain that I should be able in four days to reclaim it. It is a
pure matter of form. Is the security sufficient?'

"'Ample.'

"'You understand, Mr. Holder, that I am giving you a strong proof
of the confidence which I have in you, founded upon all that I
have heard of you. I rely upon you not only to be discreet and to
refrain from all gossip upon the matter but, above all, to
preserve this coronet with every possible precaution because I
need not say that a great public scandal would be caused if any
harm were to befall it. Any injury to it would be almost as
serious as its complete loss, for there are no beryls in the
world to match these, and it would be impossible to replace them.
I leave it with you, however, with every confidence, and I shall
call for it in person on Monday morning.'

"Seeing that my client was anxious to leave, I said no more but,
calling for my cashier, I ordered him to pay over fifty 1000
pound notes. When I was alone once more, however, with the
precious case lying upon the table in front of me, I could not
but think with some misgivings of the immense responsibility
which it entailed upon me. There could be no doubt that, as it
was a national possession, a horrible scandal would ensue if any
misfortune should occur to it. I already regretted having ever
consented to take charge of it. However, it was too late to alter
the matter now, so I locked it up in my private safe and turned
once more to my work.

"When evening came I felt that it would be an imprudence to leave
so precious a thing in the office behind me. Bankers' safes had
been forced before now, and why should not mine be? If so, how
terrible would be the position in which I should find myself! I
determined, therefore, that for the next few days I would always
carry the case backward and forward with me, so that it might
never be really out of my reach. With this intention, I called a
cab and drove out to my house at Streatham, carrying the jewel
with me. I did not breathe freely until I had taken it upstairs
and locked it in the bureau of my dressing-room.

"And now a word as to my household, Mr. Holmes, for I wish you to
thoroughly understand the situation. My groom and my page sleep
out of the house, and may be set aside altogether. I have three
maid-servants who have been with me a number of years and whose
absolute reliability is quite above suspicion. Another, Lucy
Parr, the second waiting-maid, has only been in my service a few
months. She came with an excellent character, however, and has
always given me satisfaction. She is a very pretty girl and has
attracted admirers who have occasionally hung about the place.
That is the only drawback which we have found to her, but we
believe her to be a thoroughly good girl in every way.

"So much for the servants. My family itself is so small that it
will not take me long to describe it. I am a widower and have an
only son, Arthur. He has been a disappointment to me, Mr.
Holmes--a grievous disappointment. I have no doubt that I am
myself to blame. People tell me that I have spoiled him. Very
likely I have. When my dear wife died I felt that he was all I
had to love. I could not bear to see the smile fade even for a
moment from his face. I have never denied him a wish. Perhaps it
would have been better for both of us had I been sterner, but I
meant it for the best.

"It was naturally my intention that he should succeed me in my
business, but he was not of a business turn. He was wild,
wayward, and, to speak the truth, I could not trust him in the
handling of large sums of money. When he was young he became a
member of an aristocratic club, and there, having charming
manners, he was soon the intimate of a number of men with long
purses and expensive habits. He learned to play heavily at cards
and to squander money on the turf, until he had again and again
to come to me and implore me to give him an advance upon his
allowance, that he might settle his debts of honour. He tried
more than once to break away from the dangerous company which he
was keeping, but each time the influence of his friend, Sir
George Burnwell, was enough to draw him back again.

"And, indeed, I could not wonder that such a man as Sir George
Burnwell should gain an influence over him, for he has frequently
brought him to my house, and I have found myself that I could
hardly resist the fascination of his manner. He is older than
Arthur, a man of the world to his finger-tips, one who had been
everywhere, seen everything, a brilliant talker, and a man of
great personal beauty. Yet when I think of him in cold blood, far
away from the glamour of his presence, I am convinced from his
cynical speech and the look which I have caught in his eyes that
he is one who should be deeply distrusted. So I think, and so,
too, thinks my little Mary, who has a woman's quick insight into
character.

"And now there is only she to be described. She is my niece; but
when my brother died five years ago and left her alone in the
world I adopted her, and have looked upon her ever since as my
daughter. She is a sunbeam in my house--sweet, loving, beautiful,
a wonderful manager and housekeeper, yet as tender and quiet and
gentle as a woman could be. She is my right hand. I do not know
what I could do without her. In only one matter has she ever gone
against my wishes. Twice my boy has asked her to marry him, for
he loves her devotedly, but each time she has refused him. I
think that if anyone could have drawn him into the right path it
would have been she, and that his marriage might have changed his
whole life; but now, alas! it is too late--forever too late!

"Now, Mr. Holmes, you know the people who live under my roof, and
I shall continue with my miserable story.

"When we were taking coffee in the drawing-room that night after
dinner, I told Arthur and Mary my experience, and of the precious
treasure which we had under our roof, suppressing only the name
of my client. Lucy Parr, who had brought in the coffee, had, I am
sure, left the room; but I cannot swear that the door was closed.
Mary and Arthur were much interested and wished to see the famous
coronet, but I thought it better not to disturb it.

"'Where have you put it?' asked Arthur.

"'In my own bureau.'

"'Well, I hope to goodness the house won't be burgled during the
night.' said he.

"'It is locked up,' I answered.

"'Oh, any old key will fit that bureau. When I was a youngster I
have opened it myself with the key of the box-room cupboard.'

"He often had a wild way of talking, so that I thought little of
what he said. He followed me to my room, however, that night with
a very grave face.

"'Look here, dad,' said he with his eyes cast down, 'can you let
me have 200 pounds?'

"'No, I cannot!' I answered sharply. 'I have been far too
generous with you in money matters.'

"'You have been very kind,' said he, 'but I must have this money,
or else I can never show my face inside the club again.'

"'And a very good thing, too!' I cried.

"'Yes, but you would not have me leave it a dishonoured man,'
said he. 'I could not bear the disgrace. I must raise the money
in some way, and if you will not let me have it, then I must try
other means.'

"I was very angry, for this was the third demand during the
month. 'You shall not have a farthing from me,' I cried, on which
he bowed and left the room without another word.

"When he was gone I unlocked my bureau, made sure that my
treasure was safe, and locked it again. Then I started to go
round the house to see that all was secure--a duty which I
usually leave to Mary but which I thought it well to perform
myself that night. As I came down the stairs I saw Mary herself
at the side window of the hall, which she closed and fastened as
I approached.

"'Tell me, dad,' said she, looking, I thought, a little
disturbed, 'did you give Lucy, the maid, leave to go out
to-night?'

"'Certainly not.'

"'She came in just now by the back door. I have no doubt that she
has only been to the side gate to see someone, but I think that
it is hardly safe and should be stopped.'

"'You must speak to her in the morning, or I will if you prefer
it. Are you sure that everything is fastened?'

"'Quite sure, dad.'

"'Then, good-night.' I kissed her and went up to my bedroom
again, where I was soon asleep.

"I am endeavouring to tell you everything, Mr. Holmes, which may
have any bearing upon the case, but I beg that you will question
me upon any point which I do not make clear."

"On the contrary, your statement is singularly lucid."

"I come to a part of my story now in which I should wish to be
particularly so. I am not a very heavy sleeper, and the anxiety
in my mind tended, no doubt, to make me even less so than usual.
About two in the morning, then, I was awakened by some sound in
the house. It had ceased ere I was wide awake, but it had left an
impression behind it as though a window had gently closed
somewhere. I lay listening with all my ears. Suddenly, to my
horror, there was a distinct sound of footsteps moving softly in
the next room. I slipped out of bed, all palpitating with fear,
and peeped round the corner of my dressing-room door.

"'Arthur!' I screamed, 'you villain! you thief! How dare you
touch that coronet?'

"The gas was half up, as I had left it, and my unhappy boy,
dressed only in his shirt and trousers, was standing beside the
light, holding the coronet in his hands. He appeared to be
wrenching at it, or bending it with all his strength. At my cry
he dropped it from his grasp and turned as pale as death. I
snatched it up and examined it. One of the gold corners, with
three of the beryls in it, was missing.

"'You blackguard!' I shouted, beside myself with rage. 'You have
destroyed it! You have dishonoured me forever! Where are the
jewels which you have stolen?'

"'Stolen!' he cried.

"'Yes, thief!' I roared, shaking him by the shoulder.

"'There are none missing. There cannot be any missing,' said he.

"'There are three missing. And you know where they are. Must I
call you a liar as well as a thief? Did I not see you trying to
tear off another piece?'

"'You have called me names enough,' said he, 'I will not stand it
any longer. I shall not say another word about this business,
since you have chosen to insult me. I will leave your house in
the morning and make my own way in the world.'

"'You shall leave it in the hands of the police!' I cried
half-mad with grief and rage. 'I shall have this matter probed to
the bottom.'

"'You shall learn nothing from me,' said he with a passion such
as I should not have thought was in his nature. 'If you choose to
call the police, let the police find what they can.'

"By this time the whole house was astir, for I had raised my
voice in my anger. Mary was the first to rush into my room, and,
at the sight of the coronet and of Arthur's face, she read the
whole story and, with a scream, fell down senseless on the
ground. I sent the house-maid for the police and put the
investigation into their hands at once. When the inspector and a
constable entered the house, Arthur, who had stood sullenly with
his arms folded, asked me whether it was my intention to charge
him with theft. I answered that it had ceased to be a private
matter, but had become a public one, since the ruined coronet was
national property. I was determined that the law should have its
way in everything.

"'At least,' said he, 'you will not have me arrested at once. It
would be to your advantage as well as mine if I might leave the
house for five minutes.'

"'That you may get away, or perhaps that you may conceal what you
have stolen,' said I. And then, realising the dreadful position
in which I was placed, I implored him to remember that not only
my honour but that of one who was far greater than I was at
stake; and that he threatened to raise a scandal which would
convulse the nation. He might avert it all if he would but tell
me what he had done with the three missing stones.

"'You may as well face the matter,' said I; 'you have been caught
in the act, and no confession could make your guilt more heinous.
If you but make such reparation as is in your power, by telling
us where the beryls are, all shall be forgiven and forgotten.'

"'Keep your forgiveness for those who ask for it,' he answered,
turning away from me with a sneer. I saw that he was too hardened
for any words of mine to influence him. There was but one way for
it. I called in the inspector and gave him into custody. A search
was made at once not only of his person but of his room and of
every portion of the house where he could possibly have concealed
the gems; but no trace of them could be found, nor would the
wretched boy open his mouth for all our persuasions and our
threats. This morning he was removed to a cell, and I, after
going through all the police formalities, have hurried round to
you to implore you to use your skill in unravelling the matter.
The police have openly confessed that they can at present make
nothing of it. You may go to any expense which you think
necessary. I have already offered a reward of 1000 pounds. My
God, what shall I do! I have lost my honour, my gems, and my son
in one night. Oh, what shall I do!"

He put a hand on either side of his head and rocked himself to
and fro, droning to himself like a child whose grief has got
beyond words.

Sherlock Holmes sat silent for some few minutes, with his brows
knitted and his eyes fixed upon the fire.

"Do you receive much company?" he asked.

"None save my partner with his family and an occasional friend of
Arthur's. Sir George Burnwell has been several times lately. No
one else, I think."

"Do you go out much in society?"

"Arthur does. Mary and I stay at home. We neither of us care for
it."

"That is unusual in a young girl."

"She is of a quiet nature. Besides, she is not so very young. She
is four-and-twenty."

"This matter, from what you say, seems to have been a shock to
her also."

"Terrible! She is even more affected than I."

"You have neither of you any doubt as to your son's guilt?"

"How can we have when I saw him with my own eyes with the coronet
in his hands."

"I hardly consider that a conclusive proof. Was the remainder of
the coronet at all injured?"

"Yes, it was twisted."

"Do you not think, then, that he might have been trying to
straighten it?"

"God bless you! You are doing what you can for him and for me.
But it is too heavy a task. What was he doing there at all? If
his purpose were innocent, why did he not say so?"

"Precisely. And if it were guilty, why did he not invent a lie?
His silence appears to me to cut both ways. There are several
singular points about the case. What did the police think of the
noise which awoke you from your sleep?"

"They considered that it might be caused by Arthur's closing his
bedroom door."

"A likely story! As if a man bent on felony would slam his door
so as to wake a household. What did they say, then, of the
disappearance of these gems?"

"They are still sounding the planking and probing the furniture
in the hope of finding them."

"Have they thought of looking outside the house?"

"Yes, they have shown extraordinary energy. The whole garden has
already been minutely examined."

"Now, my dear sir," said Holmes, "is it not obvious to you now
that this matter really strikes very much deeper than either you
or the police were at first inclined to think? It appeared to you
to be a simple case; to me it seems exceedingly complex. Consider
what is involved by your theory. You suppose that your son came
down from his bed, went, at great risk, to your dressing-room,
opened your bureau, took out your coronet, broke off by main
force a small portion of it, went off to some other place,
concealed three gems out of the thirty-nine, with such skill that
nobody can find them, and then returned with the other thirty-six
into the room in which he exposed himself to the greatest danger
of being discovered. I ask you now, is such a theory tenable?"

"But what other is there?" cried the banker with a gesture of
despair. "If his motives were innocent, why does he not explain
them?"

"It is our task to find that out," replied Holmes; "so now, if
you please, Mr. Holder, we will set off for Streatham together,
and devote an hour to glancing a little more closely into
details."

My friend insisted upon my accompanying them in their expedition,
which I was eager enough to do, for my curiosity and sympathy
were deeply stirred by the story to which we had listened. I
confess that the guilt of the banker's son appeared to me to be
as obvious as it did to his unhappy father, but still I had such
faith in Holmes' judgment that I felt that there must be some
grounds for hope as long as he was dissatisfied with the accepted
explanation. He hardly spoke a word the whole way out to the
southern suburb, but sat with his chin upon his breast and his
hat drawn over his eyes, sunk in the deepest thought. Our client
appeared to have taken fresh heart at the little glimpse of hope
which had been presented to him, and he even broke into a
desultory chat with me over his business affairs. A short railway
journey and a shorter walk brought us to Fairbank, the modest
residence of the great financier.

Fairbank was a good-sized square house of white stone, standing
back a little from the road. A double carriage-sweep, with a
snow-clad lawn, stretched down in front to two large iron gates
which closed the entrance. On the right side was a small wooden
thicket, which led into a narrow path between two neat hedges
stretching from the road to the kitchen door, and forming the
tradesmen's entrance. On the left ran a lane which led to the
stables, and was not itself within the grounds at all, being a
public, though little used, thoroughfare. Holmes left us standing
at the door and walked slowly all round the house, across the
front, down the tradesmen's path, and so round by the garden
behind into the stable lane. So long was he that Mr. Holder and I
went into the dining-room and waited by the fire until he should
return. We were sitting there in silence when the door opened and
a young lady came in. She was rather above the middle height,
slim, with dark hair and eyes, which seemed the darker against
the absolute pallor of her skin. I do not think that I have ever
seen such deadly paleness in a woman's face. Her lips, too, were
bloodless, but her eyes were flushed with crying. As she swept
silently into the room she impressed me with a greater sense of
grief than the banker had done in the morning, and it was the
more striking in her as she was evidently a woman of strong
character, with immense capacity for self-restraint. Disregarding
my presence, she went straight to her uncle and passed her hand
over his head with a sweet womanly caress.

"You have given orders that Arthur should be liberated, have you
not, dad?" she asked.

"No, no, my girl, the matter must be probed to the bottom."

"But I am so sure that he is innocent. You know what woman's
instincts are. I know that he has done no harm and that you will
be sorry for having acted so harshly."

"Why is he silent, then, if he is innocent?"

"Who knows? Perhaps because he was so angry that you should
suspect him."

"How could I help suspecting him, when I actually saw him with
the coronet in his hand?"

"Oh, but he had only picked it up to look at it. Oh, do, do take
my word for it that he is innocent. Let the matter drop and say
no more. It is so dreadful to think of our dear Arthur in
prison!"

"I shall never let it drop until the gems are found--never, Mary!
Your affection for Arthur blinds you as to the awful consequences
to me. Far from hushing the thing up, I have brought a gentleman
down from London to inquire more deeply into it."

"This gentleman?" she asked, facing round to me.

"No, his friend. He wished us to leave him alone. He is round in
the stable lane now."

"The stable lane?" She raised her dark eyebrows. "What can he
hope to find there? Ah! this, I suppose, is he. I trust, sir,
that you will succeed in proving, what I feel sure is the truth,
that my cousin Arthur is innocent of this crime."

"I fully share your opinion, and I trust, with you, that we may
prove it," returned Holmes, going back to the mat to knock the
snow from his shoes. "I believe I have the honour of addressing
Miss Mary Holder. Might I ask you a question or two?"

"Pray do, sir, if it may help to clear this horrible affair up."

"You heard nothing yourself last night?"

"Nothing, until my uncle here began to speak loudly. I heard
that, and I came down."

"You shut up the windows and doors the night before. Did you
fasten all the windows?"

"Yes."

"Were they all fastened this morning?"

"Yes."

"You have a maid who has a sweetheart? I think that you remarked
to your uncle last night that she had been out to see him?"

"Yes, and she was the girl who waited in the drawing-room, and
who may have heard uncle's remarks about the coronet."

"I see. You infer that she may have gone out to tell her
sweetheart, and that the two may have planned the robbery."

"But what is the good of all these vague theories," cried the
banker impatiently, "when I have told you that I saw Arthur with
the coronet in his hands?"

"Wait a little, Mr. Holder. We must come back to that. About this
girl, Miss Holder. You saw her return by the kitchen door, I
presume?"

"Yes; when I went to see if the door was fastened for the night I
met her slipping in. I saw the man, too, in the gloom."

"Do you know him?"

"Oh, yes! he is the green-grocer who brings our vegetables round.
His name is Francis Prosper."

"He stood," said Holmes, "to the left of the door--that is to
say, farther up the path than is necessary to reach the door?"

"Yes, he did."

"And he is a man with a wooden leg?"

Something like fear sprang up in the young lady's expressive
black eyes. "Why, you are like a magician," said she. "How do you
know that?" She smiled, but there was no answering smile in
Holmes' thin, eager face.

"I should be very glad now to go upstairs," said he. "I shall
probably wish to go over the outside of the house again. Perhaps
I had better take a look at the lower windows before I go up."

He walked swiftly round from one to the other, pausing only at
the large one which looked from the hall onto the stable lane.
This he opened and made a very careful examination of the sill
with his powerful magnifying lens. "Now we shall go upstairs,"
said he at last.

The banker's dressing-room was a plainly furnished little
chamber, with a grey carpet, a large bureau, and a long mirror.
Holmes went to the bureau first and looked hard at the lock.

"Which key was used to open it?" he asked.

"That which my son himself indicated--that of the cupboard of the
lumber-room."

"Have you it here?"

"That is it on the dressing-table."

Sherlock Holmes took it up and opened the bureau.

"It is a noiseless lock," said he. "It is no wonder that it did
not wake you. This case, I presume, contains the coronet. We must
have a look at it." He opened the case, and taking out the diadem
he laid it upon the table. It was a magnificent specimen of the
jeweller's art, and the thirty-six stones were the finest that I
have ever seen. At one side of the coronet was a cracked edge,
where a corner holding three gems had been torn away.

"Now, Mr. Holder," said Holmes, "here is the corner which
corresponds to that which has been so unfortunately lost. Might I
beg that you will break it off."

The banker recoiled in horror. "I should not dream of trying,"
said he.

"Then I will." Holmes suddenly bent his strength upon it, but
without result. "I feel it give a little," said he; "but, though
I am exceptionally strong in the fingers, it would take me all my
time to break it. An ordinary man could not do it. Now, what do
you think would happen if I did break it, Mr. Holder? There would
be a noise like a pistol shot. Do you tell me that all this
happened within a few yards of your bed and that you heard
nothing of it?"

"I do not know what to think. It is all dark to me."

"But perhaps it may grow lighter as we go. What do you think,
Miss Holder?"

"I confess that I still share my uncle's perplexity."

"Your son had no shoes or slippers on when you saw him?"

"He had nothing on save only his trousers and shirt."

"Thank you. We have certainly been favoured with extraordinary
luck during this inquiry, and it will be entirely our own fault
if we do not succeed in clearing the matter up. With your
permission, Mr. Holder, I shall now continue my investigations
outside."

He went alone, at his own request, for he explained that any
unnecessary footmarks might make his task more difficult. For an
hour or more he was at work, returning at last with his feet
heavy with snow and his features as inscrutable as ever.

"I think that I have seen now all that there is to see, Mr.
Holder," said he; "I can serve you best by returning to my
rooms."

"But the gems, Mr. Holmes. Where are they?"

"I cannot tell."

The banker wrung his hands. "I shall never see them again!" he
cried. "And my son? You give me hopes?"

"My opinion is in no way altered."

"Then, for God's sake, what was this dark business which was
acted in my house last night?"

"If you can call upon me at my Baker Street rooms to-morrow
morning between nine and ten I shall be happy to do what I can to
make it clearer. I understand that you give me carte blanche to
act for you, provided only that I get back the gems, and that you
place no limit on the sum I may draw."

"I would give my fortune to have them back."

"Very good. I shall look into the matter between this and then.
Good-bye; it is just possible that I may have to come over here
again before evening."

It was obvious to me that my companion's mind was now made up
about the case, although what his conclusions were was more than
I could even dimly imagine. Several times during our homeward
journey I endeavoured to sound him upon the point, but he always
glided away to some other topic, until at last I gave it over in
despair. It was not yet three when we found ourselves in our
rooms once more. He hurried to his chamber and was down again in
a few minutes dressed as a common loafer. With his collar turned
up, his shiny, seedy coat, his red cravat, and his worn boots, he
was a perfect sample of the class.

"I think that this should do," said he, glancing into the glass
above the fireplace. "I only wish that you could come with me,
Watson, but I fear that it won't do. I may be on the trail in
this matter, or I may be following a will-o'-the-wisp, but I
shall soon know which it is. I hope that I may be back in a few
hours." He cut a slice of beef from the joint upon the sideboard,
sandwiched it between two rounds of bread, and thrusting this
rude meal into his pocket he started off upon his expedition.

I had just finished my tea when he returned, evidently in
excellent spirits, swinging an old elastic-sided boot in his
hand. He chucked it down into a corner and helped himself to a
cup of tea.

"I only looked in as I passed," said he. "I am going right on."

"Where to?"

"Oh, to the other side of the West End. It may be some time
before I get back. Don't wait up for me in case I should be
late."

"How are you getting on?"

"Oh, so so. Nothing to complain of. I have been out to Streatham
since I saw you last, but I did not call at the house. It is a
very sweet little problem, and I would not have missed it for a
good deal. However, I must not sit gossiping here, but must get
these disreputable clothes off and return to my highly
respectable self."

I could see by his manner that he had stronger reasons for
satisfaction than his words alone would imply. His eyes twinkled,
and there was even a touch of colour upon his sallow cheeks. He
hastened upstairs, and a few minutes later I heard the slam of
the hall door, which told me that he was off once more upon his
congenial hunt.

I waited until midnight, but there was no sign of his return, so
I retired to my room. It was no uncommon thing for him to be away
for days and nights on end when he was hot upon a scent, so that
his lateness caused me no surprise. I do not know at what hour he
came in, but when I came down to breakfast in the morning there
he was with a cup of coffee in one hand and the paper in the
other, as fresh and trim as possible.

"You will excuse my beginning without you, Watson," said he, "but
you remember that our client has rather an early appointment this
morning."

"Why, it is after nine now," I answered. "I should not be
surprised if that were he. I thought I heard a ring."

It was, indeed, our friend the financier. I was shocked by the
change which had come over him, for his face which was naturally
of a broad and massive mould, was now pinched and fallen in,
while his hair seemed to me at least a shade whiter. He entered
with a weariness and lethargy which was even more painful than
his violence of the morning before, and he dropped heavily into
the armchair which I pushed forward for him.

"I do not know what I have done to be so severely tried," said
he. "Only two days ago I was a happy and prosperous man, without
a care in the world. Now I am left to a lonely and dishonoured
age. One sorrow comes close upon the heels of another. My niece,
Mary, has deserted me."

"Deserted you?"

"Yes. Her bed this morning had not been slept in, her room was
empty, and a note for me lay upon the hall table. I had said to
her last night, in sorrow and not in anger, that if she had
married my boy all might have been well with him. Perhaps it was
thoughtless of me to say so. It is to that remark that she refers
in this note:

"'MY DEAREST UNCLE:--I feel that I have brought trouble upon you,
and that if I had acted differently this terrible misfortune
might never have occurred. I cannot, with this thought in my
mind, ever again be happy under your roof, and I feel that I must
leave you forever. Do not worry about my future, for that is
provided for; and, above all, do not search for me, for it will
be fruitless labour and an ill-service to me. In life or in
death, I am ever your loving,--MARY.'

"What could she mean by that note, Mr. Holmes? Do you think it
points to suicide?"

"No, no, nothing of the kind. It is perhaps the best possible
solution. I trust, Mr. Holder, that you are nearing the end of
your troubles."

"Ha! You say so! You have heard something, Mr. Holmes; you have
learned something! Where are the gems?"

"You would not think 1000 pounds apiece an excessive sum for
them?"

"I would pay ten."

"That would be unnecessary. Three thousand will cover the matter.
And there is a little reward, I fancy. Have you your check-book?
Here is a pen. Better make it out for 4000 pounds."

With a dazed face the banker made out the required check. Holmes
walked over to his desk, took out a little triangular piece of
gold with three gems in it, and threw it down upon the table.

With a shriek of joy our client clutched it up.

"You have it!" he gasped. "I am saved! I am saved!"

The reaction of joy was as passionate as his grief had been, and
he hugged his recovered gems to his bosom.

"There is one other thing you owe, Mr. Holder," said Sherlock
Holmes rather sternly.

"Owe!" He caught up a pen. "Name the sum, and I will pay it."

"No, the debt is not to me. You owe a very humble apology to that
noble lad, your son, who has carried himself in this matter as I
should be proud to see my own son do, should I ever chance to
have one."

"Then it was not Arthur who took them?"

"I told you yesterday, and I repeat to-day, that it was not."

"You are sure of it! Then let us hurry to him at once to let him
know that the truth is known."

"He knows it already. When I had cleared it all up I had an
interview with him, and finding that he would not tell me the
story, I told it to him, on which he had to confess that I was
right and to add the very few details which were not yet quite
clear to me. Your news of this morning, however, may open his
lips."

"For heaven's sake, tell me, then, what is this extraordinary
mystery!"

"I will do so, and I will show you the steps by which I reached
it. And let me say to you, first, that which it is hardest for me
to say and for you to hear: there has been an understanding
between Sir George Burnwell and your niece Mary. They have now
fled together."

"My Mary? Impossible!"

"It is unfortunately more than possible; it is certain. Neither
you nor your son knew the true character of this man when you
admitted him into your family circle. He is one of the most
dangerous men in England--a ruined gambler, an absolutely
desperate villain, a man without heart or conscience. Your niece
knew nothing of such men. When he breathed his vows to her, as he
had done to a hundred before her, she flattered herself that she
alone had touched his heart. The devil knows best what he said,
but at least she became his tool and was in the habit of seeing
him nearly every evening."

"I cannot, and I will not, believe it!" cried the banker with an
ashen face.

"I will tell you, then, what occurred in your house last night.
Your niece, when you had, as she thought, gone to your room,
slipped down and talked to her lover through the window which
leads into the stable lane. His footmarks had pressed right
through the snow, so long had he stood there. She told him of the
coronet. His wicked lust for gold kindled at the news, and he
bent her to his will. I have no doubt that she loved you, but
there are women in whom the love of a lover extinguishes all
other loves, and I think that she must have been one. She had
hardly listened to his instructions when she saw you coming
downstairs, on which she closed the window rapidly and told you
about one of the servants' escapade with her wooden-legged lover,
which was all perfectly true.

"Your boy, Arthur, went to bed after his interview with you but
he slept badly on account of his uneasiness about his club debts.
In the middle of the night he heard a soft tread pass his door,
so he rose and, looking out, was surprised to see his cousin
walking very stealthily along the passage until she disappeared
into your dressing-room. Petrified with astonishment, the lad
slipped on some clothes and waited there in the dark to see what
would come of this strange affair. Presently she emerged from the
room again, and in the light of the passage-lamp your son saw
that she carried the precious coronet in her hands. She passed
down the stairs, and he, thrilling with horror, ran along and
slipped behind the curtain near your door, whence he could see
what passed in the hall beneath. He saw her stealthily open the
window, hand out the coronet to someone in the gloom, and then
closing it once more hurry back to her room, passing quite close
to where he stood hid behind the curtain.

"As long as she was on the scene he could not take any action
without a horrible exposure of the woman whom he loved. But the
instant that she was gone he realised how crushing a misfortune
this would be for you, and how all-important it was to set it
right. He rushed down, just as he was, in his bare feet, opened
the window, sprang out into the snow, and ran down the lane,
where he could see a dark figure in the moonlight. Sir George
Burnwell tried to get away, but Arthur caught him, and there was
a struggle between them, your lad tugging at one side of the
coronet, and his opponent at the other. In the scuffle, your son
struck Sir George and cut him over the eye. Then something
suddenly snapped, and your son, finding that he had the coronet
in his hands, rushed back, closed the window, ascended to your
room, and had just observed that the coronet had been twisted in
the struggle and was endeavouring to straighten it when you
appeared upon the scene."

"Is it possible?" gasped the banker.

"You then roused his anger by calling him names at a moment when
he felt that he had deserved your warmest thanks. He could not
explain the true state of affairs without betraying one who
certainly deserved little enough consideration at his hands. He
took the more chivalrous view, however, and preserved her
secret."

"And that was why she shrieked and fainted when she saw the
coronet," cried Mr. Holder. "Oh, my God! what a blind fool I have
been! And his asking to be allowed to go out for five minutes!
The dear fellow wanted to see if the missing piece were at the
scene of the struggle. How cruelly I have misjudged him!"

"When I arrived at the house," continued Holmes, "I at once went
very carefully round it to observe if there were any traces in
the snow which might help me. I knew that none had fallen since
the evening before, and also that there had been a strong frost
to preserve impressions. I passed along the tradesmen's path, but
found it all trampled down and indistinguishable. Just beyond it,
however, at the far side of the kitchen door, a woman had stood
and talked with a man, whose round impressions on one side showed
that he had a wooden leg. I could even tell that they had been
disturbed, for the woman had run back swiftly to the door, as was
shown by the deep toe and light heel marks, while Wooden-leg had
waited a little, and then had gone away. I thought at the time
that this might be the maid and her sweetheart, of whom you had
already spoken to me, and inquiry showed it was so. I passed
round the garden without seeing anything more than random tracks,
which I took to be the police; but when I got into the stable
lane a very long and complex story was written in the snow in
front of me.

"There was a double line of tracks of a booted man, and a second
double line which I saw with delight belonged to a man with naked
feet. I was at once convinced from what you had told me that the
latter was your son. The first had walked both ways, but the
other had run swiftly, and as his tread was marked in places over
the depression of the boot, it was obvious that he had passed
after the other. I followed them up and found they led to the
hall window, where Boots had worn all the snow away while
waiting. Then I walked to the other end, which was a hundred
yards or more down the lane. I saw where Boots had faced round,
where the snow was cut up as though there had been a struggle,
and, finally, where a few drops of blood had fallen, to show me
that I was not mistaken. Boots had then run down the lane, and
another little smudge of blood showed that it was he who had been
hurt. When he came to the highroad at the other end, I found that
the pavement had been cleared, so there was an end to that clue.

"On entering the house, however, I examined, as you remember, the
sill and framework of the hall window with my lens, and I could
at once see that someone had passed out. I could distinguish the
outline of an instep where the wet foot had been placed in coming
in. I was then beginning to be able to form an opinion as to what
had occurred. A man had waited outside the window; someone had
brought the gems; the deed had been overseen by your son; he had
pursued the thief; had struggled with him; they had each tugged
at the coronet, their united strength causing injuries which
neither alone could have effected. He had returned with the
prize, but had left a fragment in the grasp of his opponent. So
far I was clear. The question now was, who was the man and who
was it brought him the coronet?

"It is an old maxim of mine that when you have excluded the
impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the
truth. Now, I knew that it was not you who had brought it down,
so there only remained your niece and the maids. But if it were
the maids, why should your son allow himself to be accused in
their place? There could be no possible reason. As he loved his
cousin, however, there was an excellent explanation why he should
retain her secret--the more so as the secret was a disgraceful
one. When I remembered that you had seen her at that window, and
how she had fainted on seeing the coronet again, my conjecture
became a certainty.

"And who could it be who was her confederate? A lover evidently,
for who else could outweigh the love and gratitude which she must
feel to you? I knew that you went out little, and that your
circle of friends was a very limited one. But among them was Sir
George Burnwell. I had heard of him before as being a man of evil
reputation among women. It must have been he who wore those boots
and retained the missing gems. Even though he knew that Arthur
had discovered him, he might still flatter himself that he was
safe, for the lad could not say a word without compromising his
own family.

"Well, your own good sense will suggest what measures I took
next. I went in the shape of a loafer to Sir George's house,
managed to pick up an acquaintance with his valet, learned that
his master had cut his head the night before, and, finally, at
the expense of six shillings, made all sure by buying a pair of
his cast-off shoes. With these I journeyed down to Streatham and
saw that they exactly fitted the tracks."

"I saw an ill-dressed vagabond in the lane yesterday evening,"
said Mr. Holder.

"Precisely. It was I. I found that I had my man, so I came home
and changed my clothes. It was a delicate part which I had to
play then, for I saw that a prosecution must be avoided to avert
scandal, and I knew that so astute a villain would see that our
hands were tied in the matter. I went and saw him. At first, of
course, he denied everything. But when I gave him every
particular that had occurred, he tried to bluster and took down a
life-preserver from the wall. I knew my man, however, and I
clapped a pistol to his head before he could strike. Then he
became a little more reasonable. I told him that we would give
him a price for the stones he held--1000 pounds apiece. That
brought out the first signs of grief that he had shown. 'Why,
dash it all!' said he, 'I've let them go at six hundred for the
three!' I soon managed to get the address of the receiver who had
them, on promising him that there would be no prosecution. Off I
set to him, and after much chaffering I got our stones at 1000
pounds apiece. Then I looked in upon your son, told him that all
was right, and eventually got to my bed about two o'clock, after
what I may call a really hard day's work."

"A day which has saved England from a great public scandal," said
the banker, rising. "Sir, I cannot find words to thank you, but
you shall not find me ungrateful for what you have done. Your
skill has indeed exceeded all that I have heard of it. And now I
must fly to my dear boy to apologise to him for the wrong which I
have done him. As to what you tell me of poor Mary, it goes to my
very heart. Not even your skill can inform me where she is now."

"I think that we may safely say," returned Holmes, "that she is
wherever Sir George Burnwell is. It is equally certain, too, that
whatever her sins are, they will soon receive a more than
sufficient punishment."



XII. THE ADVENTURE OF THE COPPER BEECHES

"To the man who loves art for its own sake," remarked Sherlock
Holmes, tossing aside the advertisement sheet of the Daily
Telegraph, "it is frequently in its least important and lowliest
manifestations that the keenest pleasure is to be derived. It is
pleasant to me to observe, Watson, that you have so far grasped
this truth that in these little records of our cases which you
have been good enough to draw up, and, I am bound to say,
occasionally to embellish, you have given prominence not so much
to the many causes célèbres and sensational trials in which I
have figured but rather to those incidents which may have been
trivial in themselves, but which have given room for those
faculties of deduction and of logical synthesis which I have made
my special province."

"And yet," said I, smiling, "I cannot quite hold myself absolved
from the charge of sensationalism which has been urged against my
records."

"You have erred, perhaps," he observed, taking up a glowing
cinder with the tongs and lighting with it the long cherry-wood
pipe which was wont to replace his clay when he was in a
disputatious rather than a meditative mood--"you have erred
perhaps in attempting to put colour and life into each of your
statements instead of confining yourself to the task of placing
upon record that severe reasoning from cause to effect which is
really the only notable feature about the thing."

"It seems to me that I have done you full justice in the matter,"
I remarked with some coldness, for I was repelled by the egotism
which I had more than once observed to be a strong factor in my
friend's singular character.

"No, it is not selfishness or conceit," said he, answering, as
was his wont, my thoughts rather than my words. "If I claim full
justice for my art, it is because it is an impersonal thing--a
thing beyond myself. Crime is common. Logic is rare. Therefore it
is upon the logic rather than upon the crime that you should
dwell. You have degraded what should have been a course of
lectures into a series of tales."

It was a cold morning of the early spring, and we sat after
breakfast on either side of a cheery fire in the old room at
Baker Street. A thick fog rolled down between the lines of
dun-coloured houses, and the opposing windows loomed like dark,
shapeless blurs through the heavy yellow wreaths. Our gas was lit
and shone on the white cloth and glimmer of china and metal, for
the table had not been cleared yet. Sherlock Holmes had been
silent all the morning, dipping continuously into the
advertisement columns of a succession of papers until at last,
having apparently given up his search, he had emerged in no very
sweet temper to lecture me upon my literary shortcomings.

"At the same time," he remarked after a pause, during which he
had sat puffing at his long pipe and gazing down into the fire,
"you can hardly be open to a charge of sensationalism, for out of
these cases which you have been so kind as to interest yourself
in, a fair proportion do not treat of crime, in its legal sense,
at all. The small matter in which I endeavoured to help the King
of Bohemia, the singular experience of Miss Mary Sutherland, the
problem connected with the man with the twisted lip, and the
incident of the noble bachelor, were all matters which are
outside the pale of the law. But in avoiding the sensational, I
fear that you may have bordered on the trivial."

"The end may have been so," I answered, "but the methods I hold
to have been novel and of interest."

"Pshaw, my dear fellow, what do the public, the great unobservant
public, who could hardly tell a weaver by his tooth or a
compositor by his left thumb, care about the finer shades of
analysis and deduction! But, indeed, if you are trivial, I cannot
blame you, for the days of the great cases are past. Man, or at
least criminal man, has lost all enterprise and originality. As
to my own little practice, it seems to be degenerating into an
agency for recovering lost lead pencils and giving advice to
young ladies from boarding-schools. I think that I have touched
bottom at last, however. This note I had this morning marks my
zero-point, I fancy. Read it!" He tossed a crumpled letter across
to me.

It was dated from Montague Place upon the preceding evening, and
ran thus:

"DEAR MR. HOLMES:--I am very anxious to consult you as to whether
I should or should not accept a situation which has been offered
to me as governess. I shall call at half-past ten to-morrow if I
do not inconvenience you. Yours faithfully,
                                               "VIOLET HUNTER."

"Do you know the young lady?" I asked.

"Not I."

"It is half-past ten now."

"Yes, and I have no doubt that is her ring."

"It may turn out to be of more interest than you think. You
remember that the affair of the blue carbuncle, which appeared to
be a mere whim at first, developed into a serious investigation.
It may be so in this case, also."

"Well, let us hope so. But our doubts will very soon be solved,
for here, unless I am much mistaken, is the person in question."

As he spoke the door opened and a young lady entered the room.
She was plainly but neatly dressed, with a bright, quick face,
freckled like a plover's egg, and with the brisk manner of a
woman who has had her own way to make in the world.

"You will excuse my troubling you, I am sure," said she, as my
companion rose to greet her, "but I have had a very strange
experience, and as I have no parents or relations of any sort
from whom I could ask advice, I thought that perhaps you would be
kind enough to tell me what I should do."

"Pray take a seat, Miss Hunter. I shall be happy to do anything
that I can to serve you."

I could see that Holmes was favourably impressed by the manner
and speech of his new client. He looked her over in his searching
fashion, and then composed himself, with his lids drooping and
his finger-tips together, to listen to her story.

"I have been a governess for five years," said she, "in the
family of Colonel Spence Munro, but two months ago the colonel
received an appointment at Halifax, in Nova Scotia, and took his
children over to America with him, so that I found myself without
a situation. I advertised, and I answered advertisements, but
without success. At last the little money which I had saved began
to run short, and I was at my wit's end as to what I should do.

"There is a well-known agency for governesses in the West End
called Westaway's, and there I used to call about once a week in
order to see whether anything had turned up which might suit me.
Westaway was the name of the founder of the business, but it is
really managed by Miss Stoper. She sits in her own little office,
and the ladies who are seeking employment wait in an anteroom,
and are then shown in one by one, when she consults her ledgers
and sees whether she has anything which would suit them.

"Well, when I called last week I was shown into the little office
as usual, but I found that Miss Stoper was not alone. A
prodigiously stout man with a very smiling face and a great heavy
chin which rolled down in fold upon fold over his throat sat at
her elbow with a pair of glasses on his nose, looking very
earnestly at the ladies who entered. As I came in he gave quite a
jump in his chair and turned quickly to Miss Stoper.

"'That will do,' said he; 'I could not ask for anything better.
Capital! capital!' He seemed quite enthusiastic and rubbed his
hands together in the most genial fashion. He was such a
comfortable-looking man that it was quite a pleasure to look at
him.

"'You are looking for a situation, miss?' he asked.

"'Yes, sir.'

"'As governess?'

"'Yes, sir.'

"'And what salary do you ask?'

"'I had 4 pounds a month in my last place with Colonel Spence
Munro.'

"'Oh, tut, tut! sweating--rank sweating!' he cried, throwing his
fat hands out into the air like a man who is in a boiling
passion. 'How could anyone offer so pitiful a sum to a lady with
such attractions and accomplishments?'

"'My accomplishments, sir, may be less than you imagine,' said I.
'A little French, a little German, music, and drawing--'

"'Tut, tut!' he cried. 'This is all quite beside the question.
The point is, have you or have you not the bearing and deportment
of a lady? There it is in a nutshell. If you have not, you are
not fitted for the rearing of a child who may some day play a
considerable part in the history of the country. But if you have
why, then, how could any gentleman ask you to condescend to
accept anything under the three figures? Your salary with me,
madam, would commence at 100 pounds a year.'

"You may imagine, Mr. Holmes, that to me, destitute as I was,
such an offer seemed almost too good to be true. The gentleman,
however, seeing perhaps the look of incredulity upon my face,
opened a pocket-book and took out a note.

"'It is also my custom,' said he, smiling in the most pleasant
fashion until his eyes were just two little shining slits amid
the white creases of his face, 'to advance to my young ladies
half their salary beforehand, so that they may meet any little
expenses of their journey and their wardrobe.'

"It seemed to me that I had never met so fascinating and so
thoughtful a man. As I was already in debt to my tradesmen, the
advance was a great convenience, and yet there was something
unnatural about the whole transaction which made me wish to know
a little more before I quite committed myself.

"'May I ask where you live, sir?' said I.

"'Hampshire. Charming rural place. The Copper Beeches, five miles
on the far side of Winchester. It is the most lovely country, my
dear young lady, and the dearest old country-house.'

"'And my duties, sir? I should be glad to know what they would
be.'

"'One child--one dear little romper just six years old. Oh, if
you could see him killing cockroaches with a slipper! Smack!
smack! smack! Three gone before you could wink!' He leaned back
in his chair and laughed his eyes into his head again.

"I was a little startled at the nature of the child's amusement,
but the father's laughter made me think that perhaps he was
joking.

"'My sole duties, then,' I asked, 'are to take charge of a single
child?'

"'No, no, not the sole, not the sole, my dear young lady,' he
cried. 'Your duty would be, as I am sure your good sense would
suggest, to obey any little commands my wife might give, provided
always that they were such commands as a lady might with
propriety obey. You see no difficulty, heh?'

"'I should be happy to make myself useful.'

"'Quite so. In dress now, for example. We are faddy people, you
know--faddy but kind-hearted. If you were asked to wear any dress
which we might give you, you would not object to our little whim.
Heh?'

"'No,' said I, considerably astonished at his words.

"'Or to sit here, or sit there, that would not be offensive to
you?'

"'Oh, no.'

"'Or to cut your hair quite short before you come to us?'

"I could hardly believe my ears. As you may observe, Mr. Holmes,
my hair is somewhat luxuriant, and of a rather peculiar tint of
chestnut. It has been considered artistic. I could not dream of
sacrificing it in this offhand fashion.

"'I am afraid that that is quite impossible,' said I. He had been
watching me eagerly out of his small eyes, and I could see a
shadow pass over his face as I spoke.

"'I am afraid that it is quite essential,' said he. 'It is a
little fancy of my wife's, and ladies' fancies, you know, madam,
ladies' fancies must be consulted. And so you won't cut your
hair?'

"'No, sir, I really could not,' I answered firmly.

"'Ah, very well; then that quite settles the matter. It is a
pity, because in other respects you would really have done very
nicely. In that case, Miss Stoper, I had best inspect a few more
of your young ladies.'

"The manageress had sat all this while busy with her papers
without a word to either of us, but she glanced at me now with so
much annoyance upon her face that I could not help suspecting
that she had lost a handsome commission through my refusal.

"'Do you desire your name to be kept upon the books?' she asked.

"'If you please, Miss Stoper.'

"'Well, really, it seems rather useless, since you refuse the
most excellent offers in this fashion,' said she sharply. 'You
can hardly expect us to exert ourselves to find another such
opening for you. Good-day to you, Miss Hunter.' She struck a gong
upon the table, and I was shown out by the page.

"Well, Mr. Holmes, when I got back to my lodgings and found
little enough in the cupboard, and two or three bills upon the
table, I began to ask myself whether I had not done a very
foolish thing. After all, if these people had strange fads and
expected obedience on the most extraordinary matters, they were
at least ready to pay for their eccentricity. Very few
governesses in England are getting 100 pounds a year. Besides,
what use was my hair to me? Many people are improved by wearing
it short and perhaps I should be among the number. Next day I was
inclined to think that I had made a mistake, and by the day after
I was sure of it. I had almost overcome my pride so far as to go
back to the agency and inquire whether the place was still open
when I received this letter from the gentleman himself. I have it
here and I will read it to you:

                       "'The Copper Beeches, near Winchester.
"'DEAR MISS HUNTER:--Miss Stoper has very kindly given me your
address, and I write from here to ask you whether you have
reconsidered your decision. My wife is very anxious that you
should come, for she has been much attracted by my description of
you. We are willing to give 30 pounds a quarter, or 120 pounds a
year, so as to recompense you for any little inconvenience which
our fads may cause you. They are not very exacting, after all. My
wife is fond of a particular shade of electric blue and would
like you to wear such a dress indoors in the morning. You need
not, however, go to the expense of purchasing one, as we have one
belonging to my dear daughter Alice (now in Philadelphia), which
would, I should think, fit you very well. Then, as to sitting
here or there, or amusing yourself in any manner indicated, that
need cause you no inconvenience. As regards your hair, it is no
doubt a pity, especially as I could not help remarking its beauty
during our short interview, but I am afraid that I must remain
firm upon this point, and I only hope that the increased salary
may recompense you for the loss. Your duties, as far as the child
is concerned, are very light. Now do try to come, and I shall
meet you with the dog-cart at Winchester. Let me know your train.
Yours faithfully, JEPHRO RUCASTLE.'

"That is the letter which I have just received, Mr. Holmes, and
my mind is made up that I will accept it. I thought, however,
that before taking the final step I should like to submit the
whole matter to your consideration."

"Well, Miss Hunter, if your mind is made up, that settles the
question," said Holmes, smiling.

"But you would not advise me to refuse?"

"I confess that it is not the situation which I should like to
see a sister of mine apply for."

"What is the meaning of it all, Mr. Holmes?"

"Ah, I have no data. I cannot tell. Perhaps you have yourself
formed some opinion?"

"Well, there seems to me to be only one possible solution. Mr.
Rucastle seemed to be a very kind, good-natured man. Is it not
possible that his wife is a lunatic, that he desires to keep the
matter quiet for fear she should be taken to an asylum, and that
he humours her fancies in every way in order to prevent an
outbreak?"

"That is a possible solution--in fact, as matters stand, it is
the most probable one. But in any case it does not seem to be a
nice household for a young lady."

"But the money, Mr. Holmes, the money!"

"Well, yes, of course the pay is good--too good. That is what
makes me uneasy. Why should they give you 120 pounds a year, when
they could have their pick for 40 pounds? There must be some
strong reason behind."

"I thought that if I told you the circumstances you would
understand afterwards if I wanted your help. I should feel so
much stronger if I felt that you were at the back of me."

"Oh, you may carry that feeling away with you. I assure you that
your little problem promises to be the most interesting which has
come my way for some months. There is something distinctly novel
about some of the features. If you should find yourself in doubt
or in danger--"

"Danger! What danger do you foresee?"

Holmes shook his head gravely. "It would cease to be a danger if
we could define it," said he. "But at any time, day or night, a
telegram would bring me down to your help."

"That is enough." She rose briskly from her chair with the
anxiety all swept from her face. "I shall go down to Hampshire
quite easy in my mind now. I shall write to Mr. Rucastle at once,
sacrifice my poor hair to-night, and start for Winchester
to-morrow." With a few grateful words to Holmes she bade us both
good-night and bustled off upon her way.

"At least," said I as we heard her quick, firm steps descending
the stairs, "she seems to be a young lady who is very well able
to take care of herself."

"And she would need to be," said Holmes gravely. "I am much
mistaken if we do not hear from her before many days are past."

It was not very long before my friend's prediction was fulfilled.
A fortnight went by, during which I frequently found my thoughts
turning in her direction and wondering what strange side-alley of
human experience this lonely woman had strayed into. The unusual
salary, the curious conditions, the light duties, all pointed to
something abnormal, though whether a fad or a plot, or whether
the man were a philanthropist or a villain, it was quite beyond
my powers to determine. As to Holmes, I observed that he sat
frequently for half an hour on end, with knitted brows and an
abstracted air, but he swept the matter away with a wave of his
hand when I mentioned it. "Data! data! data!" he cried
impatiently. "I can't make bricks without clay." And yet he would
always wind up by muttering that no sister of his should ever
have accepted such a situation.

The telegram which we eventually received came late one night
just as I was thinking of turning in and Holmes was settling down
to one of those all-night chemical researches which he frequently
indulged in, when I would leave him stooping over a retort and a
test-tube at night and find him in the same position when I came
down to breakfast in the morning. He opened the yellow envelope,
and then, glancing at the message, threw it across to me.

"Just look up the trains in Bradshaw," said he, and turned back
to his chemical studies.

The summons was a brief and urgent one.

"Please be at the Black Swan Hotel at Winchester at midday
to-morrow," it said. "Do come! I am at my wit's end.  HUNTER."

"Will you come with me?" asked Holmes, glancing up.

"I should wish to."

"Just look it up, then."

"There is a train at half-past nine," said I, glancing over my
Bradshaw. "It is due at Winchester at 11:30."

"That will do very nicely. Then perhaps I had better postpone my
analysis of the acetones, as we may need to be at our best in the
morning."

By eleven o'clock the next day we were well upon our way to the
old English capital. Holmes had been buried in the morning papers
all the way down, but after we had passed the Hampshire border he
threw them down and began to admire the scenery. It was an ideal
spring day, a light blue sky, flecked with little fleecy white
clouds drifting across from west to east. The sun was shining
very brightly, and yet there was an exhilarating nip in the air,
which set an edge to a man's energy. All over the countryside,
away to the rolling hills around Aldershot, the little red and
grey roofs of the farm-steadings peeped out from amid the light
green of the new foliage.

"Are they not fresh and beautiful?" I cried with all the
enthusiasm of a man fresh from the fogs of Baker Street.

But Holmes shook his head gravely.

"Do you know, Watson," said he, "that it is one of the curses of
a mind with a turn like mine that I must look at everything with
reference to my own special subject. You look at these scattered
houses, and you are impressed by their beauty. I look at them,
and the only thought which comes to me is a feeling of their
isolation and of the impunity with which crime may be committed
there."

"Good heavens!" I cried. "Who would associate crime with these
dear old homesteads?"

"They always fill me with a certain horror. It is my belief,
Watson, founded upon my experience, that the lowest and vilest
alleys in London do not present a more dreadful record of sin
than does the smiling and beautiful countryside."

"You horrify me!"

"But the reason is very obvious. The pressure of public opinion
can do in the town what the law cannot accomplish. There is no
lane so vile that the scream of a tortured child, or the thud of
a drunkard's blow, does not beget sympathy and indignation among
the neighbours, and then the whole machinery of justice is ever
so close that a word of complaint can set it going, and there is
but a step between the crime and the dock. But look at these
lonely houses, each in its own fields, filled for the most part
with poor ignorant folk who know little of the law. Think of the
deeds of hellish cruelty, the hidden wickedness which may go on,
year in, year out, in such places, and none the wiser. Had this
lady who appeals to us for help gone to live in Winchester, I
should never have had a fear for her. It is the five miles of
country which makes the danger. Still, it is clear that she is
not personally threatened."

"No. If she can come to Winchester to meet us she can get away."

"Quite so. She has her freedom."

"What CAN be the matter, then? Can you suggest no explanation?"

"I have devised seven separate explanations, each of which would
cover the facts as far as we know them. But which of these is
correct can only be determined by the fresh information which we
shall no doubt find waiting for us. Well, there is the tower of
the cathedral, and we shall soon learn all that Miss Hunter has
to tell."

The Black Swan is an inn of repute in the High Street, at no
distance from the station, and there we found the young lady
waiting for us. She had engaged a sitting-room, and our lunch
awaited us upon the table.

"I am so delighted that you have come," she said earnestly. "It
is so very kind of you both; but indeed I do not know what I
should do. Your advice will be altogether invaluable to me."

"Pray tell us what has happened to you."

"I will do so, and I must be quick, for I have promised Mr.
Rucastle to be back before three. I got his leave to come into
town this morning, though he little knew for what purpose."

"Let us have everything in its due order." Holmes thrust his long
thin legs out towards the fire and composed himself to listen.

"In the first place, I may say that I have met, on the whole,
with no actual ill-treatment from Mr. and Mrs. Rucastle. It is
only fair to them to say that. But I cannot understand them, and
I am not easy in my mind about them."

"What can you not understand?"

"Their reasons for their conduct. But you shall have it all just
as it occurred. When I came down, Mr. Rucastle met me here and
drove me in his dog-cart to the Copper Beeches. It is, as he
said, beautifully situated, but it is not beautiful in itself,
for it is a large square block of a house, whitewashed, but all
stained and streaked with damp and bad weather. There are grounds
round it, woods on three sides, and on the fourth a field which
slopes down to the Southampton highroad, which curves past about
a hundred yards from the front door. This ground in front belongs
to the house, but the woods all round are part of Lord
Southerton's preserves. A clump of copper beeches immediately in
front of the hall door has given its name to the place.

"I was driven over by my employer, who was as amiable as ever,
and was introduced by him that evening to his wife and the child.
There was no truth, Mr. Holmes, in the conjecture which seemed to
us to be probable in your rooms at Baker Street. Mrs. Rucastle is
not mad. I found her to be a silent, pale-faced woman, much
younger than her husband, not more than thirty, I should think,
while he can hardly be less than forty-five. From their
conversation I have gathered that they have been married about
seven years, that he was a widower, and that his only child by
the first wife was the daughter who has gone to Philadelphia. Mr.
Rucastle told me in private that the reason why she had left them
was that she had an unreasoning aversion to her stepmother. As
the daughter could not have been less than twenty, I can quite
imagine that her position must have been uncomfortable with her
father's young wife.

"Mrs. Rucastle seemed to me to be colourless in mind as well as
in feature. She impressed me neither favourably nor the reverse.
She was a nonentity. It was easy to see that she was passionately
devoted both to her husband and to her little son. Her light grey
eyes wandered continually from one to the other, noting every
little want and forestalling it if possible. He was kind to her
also in his bluff, boisterous fashion, and on the whole they
seemed to be a happy couple. And yet she had some secret sorrow,
this woman. She would often be lost in deep thought, with the
saddest look upon her face. More than once I have surprised her
in tears. I have thought sometimes that it was the disposition of
her child which weighed upon her mind, for I have never met so
utterly spoiled and so ill-natured a little creature. He is small
for his age, with a head which is quite disproportionately large.
His whole life appears to be spent in an alternation between
savage fits of passion and gloomy intervals of sulking. Giving
pain to any creature weaker than himself seems to be his one idea
of amusement, and he shows quite remarkable talent in planning
the capture of mice, little birds, and insects. But I would
rather not talk about the creature, Mr. Holmes, and, indeed, he
has little to do with my story."

"I am glad of all details," remarked my friend, "whether they
seem to you to be relevant or not."

"I shall try not to miss anything of importance. The one
unpleasant thing about the house, which struck me at once, was
the appearance and conduct of the servants. There are only two, a
man and his wife. Toller, for that is his name, is a rough,
uncouth man, with grizzled hair and whiskers, and a perpetual
smell of drink. Twice since I have been with them he has been
quite drunk, and yet Mr. Rucastle seemed to take no notice of it.
His wife is a very tall and strong woman with a sour face, as
silent as Mrs. Rucastle and much less amiable. They are a most
unpleasant couple, but fortunately I spend most of my time in the
nursery and my own room, which are next to each other in one
corner of the building.

"For two days after my arrival at the Copper Beeches my life was
very quiet; on the third, Mrs. Rucastle came down just after
breakfast and whispered something to her husband.

"'Oh, yes,' said he, turning to me, 'we are very much obliged to
you, Miss Hunter, for falling in with our whims so far as to cut
your hair. I assure you that it has not detracted in the tiniest
iota from your appearance. We shall now see how the electric-blue
dress will become you. You will find it laid out upon the bed in
your room, and if you would be so good as to put it on we should
both be extremely obliged.'

"The dress which I found waiting for me was of a peculiar shade
of blue. It was of excellent material, a sort of beige, but it
bore unmistakable signs of having been worn before. It could not
have been a better fit if I had been measured for it. Both Mr.
and Mrs. Rucastle expressed a delight at the look of it, which
seemed quite exaggerated in its vehemence. They were waiting for
me in the drawing-room, which is a very large room, stretching
along the entire front of the house, with three long windows
reaching down to the floor. A chair had been placed close to the
central window, with its back turned towards it. In this I was
asked to sit, and then Mr. Rucastle, walking up and down on the
other side of the room, began to tell me a series of the funniest
stories that I have ever listened to. You cannot imagine how
comical he was, and I laughed until I was quite weary. Mrs.
Rucastle, however, who has evidently no sense of humour, never so
much as smiled, but sat with her hands in her lap, and a sad,
anxious look upon her face. After an hour or so, Mr. Rucastle
suddenly remarked that it was time to commence the duties of the
day, and that I might change my dress and go to little Edward in
the nursery.

"Two days later this same performance was gone through under
exactly similar circumstances. Again I changed my dress, again I
sat in the window, and again I laughed very heartily at the funny
stories of which my employer had an immense répertoire, and which
he told inimitably. Then he handed me a yellow-backed novel, and
moving my chair a little sideways, that my own shadow might not
fall upon the page, he begged me to read aloud to him. I read for
about ten minutes, beginning in the heart of a chapter, and then
suddenly, in the middle of a sentence, he ordered me to cease and
to change my dress.

"You can easily imagine, Mr. Holmes, how curious I became as to
what the meaning of this extraordinary performance could possibly
be. They were always very careful, I observed, to turn my face
away from the window, so that I became consumed with the desire
to see what was going on behind my back. At first it seemed to be
impossible, but I soon devised a means. My hand-mirror had been
broken, so a happy thought seized me, and I concealed a piece of
the glass in my handkerchief. On the next occasion, in the midst
of my laughter, I put my handkerchief up to my eyes, and was able
with a little management to see all that there was behind me. I
confess that I was disappointed. There was nothing. At least that
was my first impression. At the second glance, however, I
perceived that there was a man standing in the Southampton Road,
a small bearded man in a grey suit, who seemed to be looking in
my direction. The road is an important highway, and there are
usually people there. This man, however, was leaning against the
railings which bordered our field and was looking earnestly up. I
lowered my handkerchief and glanced at Mrs. Rucastle to find her
eyes fixed upon me with a most searching gaze. She said nothing,
but I am convinced that she had divined that I had a mirror in my
hand and had seen what was behind me. She rose at once.

"'Jephro,' said she, 'there is an impertinent fellow upon the
road there who stares up at Miss Hunter.'

"'No friend of yours, Miss Hunter?' he asked.

"'No, I know no one in these parts.'

"'Dear me! How very impertinent! Kindly turn round and motion to
him to go away.'

"'Surely it would be better to take no notice.'

"'No, no, we should have him loitering here always. Kindly turn
round and wave him away like that.'

"I did as I was told, and at the same instant Mrs. Rucastle drew
down the blind. That was a week ago, and from that time I have
not sat again in the window, nor have I worn the blue dress, nor
seen the man in the road."

"Pray continue," said Holmes. "Your narrative promises to be a
most interesting one."

"You will find it rather disconnected, I fear, and there may
prove to be little relation between the different incidents of
which I speak. On the very first day that I was at the Copper
Beeches, Mr. Rucastle took me to a small outhouse which stands
near the kitchen door. As we approached it I heard the sharp
rattling of a chain, and the sound as of a large animal moving
about.

"'Look in here!' said Mr. Rucastle, showing me a slit between two
planks. 'Is he not a beauty?'

"I looked through and was conscious of two glowing eyes, and of a
vague figure huddled up in the darkness.

"'Don't be frightened,' said my employer, laughing at the start
which I had given. 'It's only Carlo, my mastiff. I call him mine,
but really old Toller, my groom, is the only man who can do
anything with him. We feed him once a day, and not too much then,
so that he is always as keen as mustard. Toller lets him loose
every night, and God help the trespasser whom he lays his fangs
upon. For goodness' sake don't you ever on any pretext set your
foot over the threshold at night, for it's as much as your life
is worth.'

"The warning was no idle one, for two nights later I happened to
look out of my bedroom window about two o'clock in the morning.
It was a beautiful moonlight night, and the lawn in front of the
house was silvered over and almost as bright as day. I was
standing, rapt in the peaceful beauty of the scene, when I was
aware that something was moving under the shadow of the copper
beeches. As it emerged into the moonshine I saw what it was. It
was a giant dog, as large as a calf, tawny tinted, with hanging
jowl, black muzzle, and huge projecting bones. It walked slowly
across the lawn and vanished into the shadow upon the other side.
That dreadful sentinel sent a chill to my heart which I do not
think that any burglar could have done.

"And now I have a very strange experience to tell you. I had, as
you know, cut off my hair in London, and I had placed it in a
great coil at the bottom of my trunk. One evening, after the
child was in bed, I began to amuse myself by examining the
furniture of my room and by rearranging my own little things.
There was an old chest of drawers in the room, the two upper ones
empty and open, the lower one locked. I had filled the first two
with my linen, and as I had still much to pack away I was
naturally annoyed at not having the use of the third drawer. It
struck me that it might have been fastened by a mere oversight,
so I took out my bunch of keys and tried to open it. The very
first key fitted to perfection, and I drew the drawer open. There
was only one thing in it, but I am sure that you would never
guess what it was. It was my coil of hair.

"I took it up and examined it. It was of the same peculiar tint,
and the same thickness. But then the impossibility of the thing
obtruded itself upon me. How could my hair have been locked in
the drawer? With trembling hands I undid my trunk, turned out the
contents, and drew from the bottom my own hair. I laid the two
tresses together, and I assure you that they were identical. Was
it not extraordinary? Puzzle as I would, I could make nothing at
all of what it meant. I returned the strange hair to the drawer,
and I said nothing of the matter to the Rucastles as I felt that
I had put myself in the wrong by opening a drawer which they had
locked.

"I am naturally observant, as you may have remarked, Mr. Holmes,
and I soon had a pretty good plan of the whole house in my head.
There was one wing, however, which appeared not to be inhabited
at all. A door which faced that which led into the quarters of
the Tollers opened into this suite, but it was invariably locked.
One day, however, as I ascended the stair, I met Mr. Rucastle
coming out through this door, his keys in his hand, and a look on
his face which made him a very different person to the round,
jovial man to whom I was accustomed. His cheeks were red, his
brow was all crinkled with anger, and the veins stood out at his
temples with passion. He locked the door and hurried past me
without a word or a look.

"This aroused my curiosity, so when I went out for a walk in the
grounds with my charge, I strolled round to the side from which I
could see the windows of this part of the house. There were four
of them in a row, three of which were simply dirty, while the
fourth was shuttered up. They were evidently all deserted. As I
strolled up and down, glancing at them occasionally, Mr. Rucastle
came out to me, looking as merry and jovial as ever.

"'Ah!' said he, 'you must not think me rude if I passed you
without a word, my dear young lady. I was preoccupied with
business matters.'

"I assured him that I was not offended. 'By the way,' said I,
'you seem to have quite a suite of spare rooms up there, and one
of them has the shutters up.'

"He looked surprised and, as it seemed to me, a little startled
at my remark.

"'Photography is one of my hobbies,' said he. 'I have made my
dark room up there. But, dear me! what an observant young lady we
have come upon. Who would have believed it? Who would have ever
believed it?' He spoke in a jesting tone, but there was no jest
in his eyes as he looked at me. I read suspicion there and
annoyance, but no jest.

"Well, Mr. Holmes, from the moment that I understood that there
was something about that suite of rooms which I was not to know,
I was all on fire to go over them. It was not mere curiosity,
though I have my share of that. It was more a feeling of duty--a
feeling that some good might come from my penetrating to this
place. They talk of woman's instinct; perhaps it was woman's
instinct which gave me that feeling. At any rate, it was there,
and I was keenly on the lookout for any chance to pass the
forbidden door.

"It was only yesterday that the chance came. I may tell you that,
besides Mr. Rucastle, both Toller and his wife find something to
do in these deserted rooms, and I once saw him carrying a large
black linen bag with him through the door. Recently he has been
drinking hard, and yesterday evening he was very drunk; and when
I came upstairs there was the key in the door. I have no doubt at
all that he had left it there. Mr. and Mrs. Rucastle were both
downstairs, and the child was with them, so that I had an
admirable opportunity. I turned the key gently in the lock,
opened the door, and slipped through.

"There was a little passage in front of me, unpapered and
uncarpeted, which turned at a right angle at the farther end.
Round this corner were three doors in a line, the first and third
of which were open. They each led into an empty room, dusty and
cheerless, with two windows in the one and one in the other, so
thick with dirt that the evening light glimmered dimly through
them. The centre door was closed, and across the outside of it
had been fastened one of the broad bars of an iron bed, padlocked
at one end to a ring in the wall, and fastened at the other with
stout cord. The door itself was locked as well, and the key was
not there. This barricaded door corresponded clearly with the
shuttered window outside, and yet I could see by the glimmer from
beneath it that the room was not in darkness. Evidently there was
a skylight which let in light from above. As I stood in the
passage gazing at the sinister door and wondering what secret it
might veil, I suddenly heard the sound of steps within the room
and saw a shadow pass backward and forward against the little
slit of dim light which shone out from under the door. A mad,
unreasoning terror rose up in me at the sight, Mr. Holmes. My
overstrung nerves failed me suddenly, and I turned and ran--ran
as though some dreadful hand were behind me clutching at the
skirt of my dress. I rushed down the passage, through the door,
and straight into the arms of Mr. Rucastle, who was waiting
outside.

"'So,' said he, smiling, 'it was you, then. I thought that it
must be when I saw the door open.'

"'Oh, I am so frightened!' I panted.

"'My dear young lady! my dear young lady!'--you cannot think how
caressing and soothing his manner was--'and what has frightened
you, my dear young lady?'

"But his voice was just a little too coaxing. He overdid it. I
was keenly on my guard against him.

"'I was foolish enough to go into the empty wing,' I answered.
'But it is so lonely and eerie in this dim light that I was
frightened and ran out again. Oh, it is so dreadfully still in
there!'

"'Only that?' said he, looking at me keenly.

"'Why, what did you think?' I asked.

"'Why do you think that I lock this door?'

"'I am sure that I do not know.'

"'It is to keep people out who have no business there. Do you
see?' He was still smiling in the most amiable manner.

"'I am sure if I had known--'

"'Well, then, you know now. And if you ever put your foot over
that threshold again'--here in an instant the smile hardened into
a grin of rage, and he glared down at me with the face of a
demon--'I'll throw you to the mastiff.'

"I was so terrified that I do not know what I did. I suppose that
I must have rushed past him into my room. I remember nothing
until I found myself lying on my bed trembling all over. Then I
thought of you, Mr. Holmes. I could not live there longer without
some advice. I was frightened of the house, of the man, of the
woman, of the servants, even of the child. They were all horrible
to me. If I could only bring you down all would be well. Of
course I might have fled from the house, but my curiosity was
almost as strong as my fears. My mind was soon made up. I would
send you a wire. I put on my hat and cloak, went down to the
office, which is about half a mile from the house, and then
returned, feeling very much easier. A horrible doubt came into my
mind as I approached the door lest the dog might be loose, but I
remembered that Toller had drunk himself into a state of
insensibility that evening, and I knew that he was the only one
in the household who had any influence with the savage creature,
or who would venture to set him free. I slipped in in safety and
lay awake half the night in my joy at the thought of seeing you.
I had no difficulty in getting leave to come into Winchester this
morning, but I must be back before three o'clock, for Mr. and
Mrs. Rucastle are going on a visit, and will be away all the
evening, so that I must look after the child. Now I have told you
all my adventures, Mr. Holmes, and I should be very glad if you
could tell me what it all means, and, above all, what I should
do."

Holmes and I had listened spellbound to this extraordinary story.
My friend rose now and paced up and down the room, his hands in
his pockets, and an expression of the most profound gravity upon
his face.

"Is Toller still drunk?" he asked.

"Yes. I heard his wife tell Mrs. Rucastle that she could do
nothing with him."

"That is well. And the Rucastles go out to-night?"

"Yes."

"Is there a cellar with a good strong lock?"

"Yes, the wine-cellar."

"You seem to me to have acted all through this matter like a very
brave and sensible girl, Miss Hunter. Do you think that you could
perform one more feat? I should not ask it of you if I did not
think you a quite exceptional woman."

"I will try. What is it?"

"We shall be at the Copper Beeches by seven o'clock, my friend
and I. The Rucastles will be gone by that time, and Toller will,
we hope, be incapable. There only remains Mrs. Toller, who might
give the alarm. If you could send her into the cellar on some
errand, and then turn the key upon her, you would facilitate
matters immensely."

"I will do it."

"Excellent! We shall then look thoroughly into the affair. Of
course there is only one feasible explanation. You have been
brought there to personate someone, and the real person is
imprisoned in this chamber. That is obvious. As to who this
prisoner is, I have no doubt that it is the daughter, Miss Alice
Rucastle, if I remember right, who was said to have gone to
America. You were chosen, doubtless, as resembling her in height,
figure, and the colour of your hair. Hers had been cut off, very
possibly in some illness through which she has passed, and so, of
course, yours had to be sacrificed also. By a curious chance you
came upon her tresses. The man in the road was undoubtedly some
friend of hers--possibly her fiancé--and no doubt, as you wore
the girl's dress and were so like her, he was convinced from your
laughter, whenever he saw you, and afterwards from your gesture,
that Miss Rucastle was perfectly happy, and that she no longer
desired his attentions. The dog is let loose at night to prevent
him from endeavouring to communicate with her. So much is fairly
clear. The most serious point in the case is the disposition of
the child."

"What on earth has that to do with it?" I ejaculated.

"My dear Watson, you as a medical man are continually gaining
light as to the tendencies of a child by the study of the
parents. Don't you see that the converse is equally valid. I have
frequently gained my first real insight into the character of
parents by studying their children. This child's disposition is
abnormally cruel, merely for cruelty's sake, and whether he
derives this from his smiling father, as I should suspect, or
from his mother, it bodes evil for the poor girl who is in their
power."

"I am sure that you are right, Mr. Holmes," cried our client. "A
thousand things come back to me which make me certain that you
have hit it. Oh, let us lose not an instant in bringing help to
this poor creature."

"We must be circumspect, for we are dealing with a very cunning
man. We can do nothing until seven o'clock. At that hour we shall
be with you, and it will not be long before we solve the
mystery."

We were as good as our word, for it was just seven when we
reached the Copper Beeches, having put up our trap at a wayside
public-house. The group of trees, with their dark leaves shining
like burnished metal in the light of the setting sun, were
sufficient to mark the house even had Miss Hunter not been
standing smiling on the door-step.

"Have you managed it?" asked Holmes.

A loud thudding noise came from somewhere downstairs. "That is
Mrs. Toller in the cellar," said she. "Her husband lies snoring
on the kitchen rug. Here are his keys, which are the duplicates
of Mr. Rucastle's."

"You have done well indeed!" cried Holmes with enthusiasm. "Now
lead the way, and we shall soon see the end of this black
business."

We passed up the stair, unlocked the door, followed on down a
passage, and found ourselves in front of the barricade which Miss
Hunter had described. Holmes cut the cord and removed the
transverse bar. Then he tried the various keys in the lock, but
without success. No sound came from within, and at the silence
Holmes' face clouded over.

"I trust that we are not too late," said he. "I think, Miss
Hunter, that we had better go in without you. Now, Watson, put
your shoulder to it, and we shall see whether we cannot make our
way in."

It was an old rickety door and gave at once before our united
strength. Together we rushed into the room. It was empty. There
was no furniture save a little pallet bed, a small table, and a
basketful of linen. The skylight above was open, and the prisoner
gone.

"There has been some villainy here," said Holmes; "this beauty
has guessed Miss Hunter's intentions and has carried his victim
off."

"But how?"

"Through the skylight. We shall soon see how he managed it." He
swung himself up onto the roof. "Ah, yes," he cried, "here's the
end of a long light ladder against the eaves. That is how he did
it."

"But it is impossible," said Miss Hunter; "the ladder was not
there when the Rucastles went away."

"He has come back and done it. I tell you that he is a clever and
dangerous man. I should not be very much surprised if this were
he whose step I hear now upon the stair. I think, Watson, that it
would be as well for you to have your pistol ready."

The words were hardly out of his mouth before a man appeared at
the door of the room, a very fat and burly man, with a heavy
stick in his hand. Miss Hunter screamed and shrunk against the
wall at the sight of him, but Sherlock Holmes sprang forward and
confronted him.

"You villain!" said he, "where's your daughter?"

The fat man cast his eyes round, and then up at the open
skylight.

"It is for me to ask you that," he shrieked, "you thieves! Spies
and thieves! I have caught you, have I? You are in my power. I'll
serve you!" He turned and clattered down the stairs as hard as he
could go.

"He's gone for the dog!" cried Miss Hunter.

"I have my revolver," said I.

"Better close the front door," cried Holmes, and we all rushed
down the stairs together. We had hardly reached the hall when we
heard the baying of a hound, and then a scream of agony, with a
horrible worrying sound which it was dreadful to listen to. An
elderly man with a red face and shaking limbs came staggering out
at a side door.

"My God!" he cried. "Someone has loosed the dog. It's not been
fed for two days. Quick, quick, or it'll be too late!"

Holmes and I rushed out and round the angle of the house, with
Toller hurrying behind us. There was the huge famished brute, its
black muzzle buried in Rucastle's throat, while he writhed and
screamed upon the ground. Running up, I blew its brains out, and
it fell over with its keen white teeth still meeting in the great
creases of his neck. With much labour we separated them and
carried him, living but horribly mangled, into the house. We laid
him upon the drawing-room sofa, and having dispatched the sobered
Toller to bear the news to his wife, I did what I could to
relieve his pain. We were all assembled round him when the door
opened, and a tall, gaunt woman entered the room.

"Mrs. Toller!" cried Miss Hunter.

"Yes, miss. Mr. Rucastle let me out when he came back before he
went up to you. Ah, miss, it is a pity you didn't let me know
what you were planning, for I would have told you that your pains
were wasted."

"Ha!" said Holmes, looking keenly at her. "It is clear that Mrs.
Toller knows more about this matter than anyone else."

"Yes, sir, I do, and I am ready enough to tell what I know."

"Then, pray, sit down, and let us hear it for there are several
points on which I must confess that I am still in the dark."

"I will soon make it clear to you," said she; "and I'd have done
so before now if I could ha' got out from the cellar. If there's
police-court business over this, you'll remember that I was the
one that stood your friend, and that I was Miss Alice's friend
too.

"She was never happy at home, Miss Alice wasn't, from the time
that her father married again. She was slighted like and had no
say in anything, but it never really became bad for her until
after she met Mr. Fowler at a friend's house. As well as I could
learn, Miss Alice had rights of her own by will, but she was so
quiet and patient, she was, that she never said a word about them
but just left everything in Mr. Rucastle's hands. He knew he was
safe with her; but when there was a chance of a husband coming
forward, who would ask for all that the law would give him, then
her father thought it time to put a stop on it. He wanted her to
sign a paper, so that whether she married or not, he could use
her money. When she wouldn't do it, he kept on worrying her until
she got brain-fever, and for six weeks was at death's door. Then
she got better at last, all worn to a shadow, and with her
beautiful hair cut off; but that didn't make no change in her
young man, and he stuck to her as true as man could be."

"Ah," said Holmes, "I think that what you have been good enough
to tell us makes the matter fairly clear, and that I can deduce
all that remains. Mr. Rucastle then, I presume, took to this
system of imprisonment?"

"Yes, sir."

"And brought Miss Hunter down from London in order to get rid of
the disagreeable persistence of Mr. Fowler."

"That was it, sir."

"But Mr. Fowler being a persevering man, as a good seaman should
be, blockaded the house, and having met you succeeded by certain
arguments, metallic or otherwise, in convincing you that your
interests were the same as his."

"Mr. Fowler was a very kind-spoken, free-handed gentleman," said
Mrs. Toller serenely.

"And in this way he managed that your good man should have no
want of drink, and that a ladder should be ready at the moment
when your master had gone out."

"You have it, sir, just as it happened."

"I am sure we owe you an apology, Mrs. Toller," said Holmes, "for
you have certainly cleared up everything which puzzled us. And
here comes the country surgeon and Mrs. Rucastle, so I think,
Watson, that we had best escort Miss Hunter back to Winchester,
as it seems to me that our locus standi now is rather a
questionable one."

And thus was solved the mystery of the sinister house with the
copper beeches in front of the door. Mr. Rucastle survived, but
was always a broken man, kept alive solely through the care of
his devoted wife. They still live with their old servants, who
probably know so much of Rucastle's past life that he finds it
difficult to part from them. Mr. Fowler and Miss Rucastle were
married, by special license, in Southampton the day after their
flight, and he is now the holder of a government appointment in
the island of Mauritius. As to Miss Violet Hunter, my friend
Holmes, rather to my disappointment, manifested no further
interest in her when once she had ceased to be the centre of one
of his problems, and she is now the head of a private school at
Walsall, where I believe that she has met with considerable success.

 The opening shot opens with the final  of the season finale, where Joey is trying to decide if she should get a refund for her ticket to Paris

 Fully refundable, right? 

You bet. Its a shame you cant use this. Paris is supposed to be amazing in the spring. 

 Yeah, thats what I hear.

The  cuts from her getting a refund to her sitting on a chair out side the Potter Bed and Breakfast, writing in her journal. There are several montages of how she spent her summer

 So I didnt go to Paris. But I totally couldve. I mean, what Dawson said that night definitely rang true. Come on, rain man. Your life awaits. Yours, too, you know. He was right. My life was waiting for me out there. But that doesnt mean I had to  out my one and only credit card and fly halfway across the world to find it. Screw that. Instead, I embraced the simple, relatively angst-free pleasures of a summer in Capeside. I read a lot of books, listened to a lot of CDs, waited a lot of tables at the yacht club. Oh...and I met a boy. He was very cute and very nice, and things were going very well right up until the moment he said... I think Im in love with you. I know. Poor Joey potter. Cute boy falls in love with her. How tragic. But it was a completely inappropriate display of affection. 

She picks up a postcard from LA, and we  a  with Audrey and  riding in a convertible car abound the s of LA

 Now, on the other hand, they were smart. They were keeping it simple. They were all about the fun. They came, they saw, they pretty much kicked L.A.S ass. 

 Jack sitting in front of a computer with an email scrolling across the screen

 Radio plays Back in beantown, Eric the closeted frat boy came barreling out of the closet, and the two of them had a grand old summer doing all the things that young people in love are wont to do. But then jack succumbed to a fate typically reserved for heterosexual women-- he was dumped for someone far younger and prettier than himself... by e-mail, no less. He was depressed. This much is true. But he got up, dusted himself off, and got right back in the game. 

We see a  of Jack sneaking a boy out of his bedroom after Grams leaves the area.

  of a high class neighborhood, and then her sitting on a couch in front of her parents

 Pretending to make stretching grunts Meanwhile, 3,000 miles away in the Tony Hamptons, miss nifer Lindley was the recipient of some very alarming news. Mr. And Mrs. Theodore Lindley sat their only child down and informed her that they were getting a divorce. She was happy... really, truly happy. She thought it was the most functional thing her parents had ever done. 

 Joey in her dorm looking at a picture of Dawson, and she goes and hangs it on her wall.

 And oddly enough, what followed was perhaps the truth is, we didnt talk this summer. Not a word. Which is weird, I guess, but at the same time, not. I...I kept meaning to call him. I did. But one week turned into a month, and before you know it... here we are, back at school. What Dawson said that night definitely rang true-- my life is waiting for me out there. I know it. And whats really cool is that I have absolutely no idea what to expect. But whatever it is... Im ready for it. Im excited. Bring it on. 



Opening Credits



Commercial Break





 Joey running through the campus of school carrying her book bag, and looking frantically down at her wrist watch cause she is late for something. She turns a corner and runs into a guy knocking him down



Man Whoa! Wow. You hit pretty hard for a girl. 

 Im so sorry. Im late for something. 

Man Ever heard of an alarm clock? 

 Sullenly I said Im sorry. 

Joey leaves

Man Yeah, well, sorrys not gonna unbruise my ass, now, is it? 



 Joey gets to the office of the professor she is supposed to meet up with. She runs into the secretary who is leaving his office



 Hi. Um...Joey potter for professor . IM...really sorry Im late. 

Secretary Oh, no worries, dear. Hes running a bit late himself. 

Joey goes into the office, and turns when a man walks into the office. She turns to see that it is the guy she knocked down on campus, just a minute ago.

 Fudge. Sighs 



 Outside the School Dorms. Audrey and  pull up in his mustang and Get out of the car, and look at one another over the roof of the car.

 Sighs We should probably wake him up. 

 Do we have to? 

 Listen, I know you werent that keen on giving him a ride out here, but what was I supposed to do, ? I grew up next to the kid. His mom and dad want him to go to Worthington. Come on. Hes not that bad, is he? 

 Well...apart from shoving his somewhat dubious musical taste down my throat, he did take every opportunity to tell me how many times hes seen you naked. 

 Hes never seen me naked. 

 Really! He knows about the tattoo. 

Audrey looks into the back seat and screams. Jack Osborne pops up out of the back seat of the car.

 Wake up, you little perv! 

 What the Bleep?! 

 Whats this about you seeing me naked? 

 What the Bleep Did you tell her? 

 Just what you told me, chief. 

 Thanks a lot. Thanks a Bleep Lot. I confide in you, and this is what I get? 

 Im listening, jack. 

 Do you remember the telescope in my bedroom? Well, I didnt really do much stargazing. 

 Im so telling your father on you. 

 Go ahead. He had a peek, too. 

 Oh! 

 But dont worry, he said really good things. 

 Ok. Well, then, Im telling your mother, and shes gonna kick your ass, jack. 

 Yeah, yeah, yeah. Whatever. Let me out. I gotta take a Bleep Piss. 

Jack gets out of the car and leaves them alone.

 Ohhh! Gahh. Mmm! Mmm. Mmm... mmm! What the hell was that for? 

 Mmm. The end is nigh, my dear. 

 What are you talkin about, woman? 

 Dont you get it, ? None of the great couples ever make it in the real world-- Sid and Nancy, bonnie and Clyde, Dawson and Joey. How the hell do you ever expect us to have a fighting chance? 

 Ok, Stella Adler, whats up with you? 

 Sighs The summer is over, . The return to dull normalcy begins now. I mean, look at all of these... civilians going about their business... marching off to class, buying their little books. Its enough to make a girl wanna blow chunks. 

 Speaking of, why arent you marchin off with em? 

 Because nothing ever happens on the first day of class. Its a total waste. 

 Naturally. 

 Did you have a nice summer, ? 

 I had a fantastic summer. Thank you so much for showing me your L.A. And thank you for introducing me to your father, without whom I wouldnt have a single job prospect at the moment. 

 Yeah, you want to know something? You werent supposed to actually impress my father, . 

 What was I suppose to do, creep the guy out? 

 Yes. But thats not the point. 

 Really? Whats the point? 

 The point is that I dont want you to turn into some lame 9-to-5er on me, . 

 Well, Ill...try, miss Liddell, but I do actually need a job, and it would be nice to have just a little bit of disposable cash for a change. 

 We live in a city with, like, 8 million restaurants. Take your pick. 

 Or maybe I want something better for myself. Perhaps  actually wants his very own shot at greatness. Besides, the party cant go on forever, baby. 

 Blah blah, blah blah, blah blah. Will you bring my bags in? 

 Yes. Ok. 



 s Office. Professor  is going through a folder at his desk, as Joey is sitting in a chair on the opposite side of the desk.

 Chuckles 

 What? 

 I--I cant believe that you said fudge. 

 Oh. It just... kind of came out. 

 I mean, its so silly. Even Doris, my secretary, would probably go for the more hard-core version of my favorite expletive. 

 Well, Doris is clearly a tough broad. 

 Uh-huh. Hey, tomorrows your birthday. 

 Thats right. 

 Any big plans? 

 Uh, no. 

 Oh, its just as well. You dont have much to celebrate. It says here that, uh, your scholarship barely covers your tuition. Do you have a job?

 Uh, no. 

 Are you looking for one? 

 Yes. 

 Theres an opening in the English department. Research assistant. You interested? 

 Sure, maybe. 

 "Sure, maybe." This is a job, Joey, that students stab each other in the back for. Think about it. Let me know. Oh, now, this-- this is a problem. 

 What? 

 It says here youre signed up for my lit class. 

 Oh, yeah, I... thought it looked interesting. 

 Its also a little advanced for a sophomore. 

 Obviously you dont know me, professor , because, if you did, you would realize that my sophomore status, its a total non-issue. Um, besides, Ive read most of the books on the reading list. 

 How about last exit to Brooklyn? Did you read that book? 

 Last exit to Brooklyn. Um... nods head no

 Ill make you a deal. You finish it before the first class and Ill try and forget the fact that youre just a lowly sophomore. Ok? 

 Ok. Wait--before the first class? The first class is today. 

 Thats right. 

 At 300. 

 Yeah. Whats your point? 

 Nothing. Forget it. 



 Grams House. Grams is making some lunches, when  comes down into the kitchen with a huge smile on her face.



 Good morning, grandmother. 

Grams Good morning, granddaughter. 

 Grams—

Grams I have something to—

 Have I ever told you that you are my hero? That youre everything that Ive ever wanted to be? 

Grams Well, thats lovely, dear. 

 Grams, do you notice anything different about me this morning? 

Grams No. 

 Well, as it just so happens, Im happy. Todays the first day of my sophomore year and, really, I couldnt be more pleased. I dont know if youve noticed this, but Im generally a dour sort. 

Grams No. Really? I wasnt aware of that. 

 Yes, and while Im still somewhat disgusted with life, I find myself suddenly happy to be here. 

Grams Well, thats-- thats nice, dear. 

 You know what I think it is? I think that the disillusion of the Lindley marriage has actually restored my faith in humanity. I mean, if those 2 loons can take steps to improve the quality of their lives and--and the lives of those around them, then anything is possible. Grams turns and looks at her What? 

Grams Whats happened to my granddaughter? If youve eaten her I want you to spit her out this instant. 

Telephone rings 

Grams Hello? Oh, hello, Mr. Smalls. No, I dont have any plans. Id love to accompany you to tea at the Boston museum of art. Oh, my. Oh, my. That would just be lovely. 

 leaves the kitchen and runs into Jack coming down the stairs with a guy, and stops them, then looks into the kitchen and waits until Grams is out of view, then waves them on



 Joeys Dorm room.  is lying down on Audreys bed, rubbing his eyes, when Joey comes into the room. Audrey is in the bathroom with the door closed.  jumps up and goes over to Joey



 Hey, you. 

 Oh, Joey. Thank god. Look, theres no time right now, but, no matter what happens in the next 30 seconds, or what I do, you do not want me to crash here with you guys. Got it? Just—

Audrey comes out of the bathroom

 Hi.

 Joey potter, as I live and breathe. 

 My nemesis. Welcome back. 

 Thank you. Hey, can, um,  stay with us for a couple days? 

 Um... uh, you know what? Now is not really the best time. Uh... Ive got a lot of studying to do, and, well, I mean, you know . I mean, hes kind of like a child. If he doesnt get enough attention, he starts to act out, and then theres the burping, the farting, the chronic hal-- its disgusting, really. 

 Dont I know it. 

 Hey, Im standing right here. 

 Im sorry, I cant be a party to it. 

 I understand. All right, well, it looks like youre shacking up with grams, amigo. 

 Well, thats just great. You know, after all weve been through together, Joey, I really thought youd be cooler about this. Im actually a little hurt. 

 Well, when you put it that way—

 Oh, no. No, no, no. Dont you try to weasel out of this now. The damage is done. Lets go, Liddell.

 Oh, hey! What are we doing tonight? 

 Well, I dont know. 

 We could go out and celebrate. 

 Ah, you want to celebrate my return to Worthington? 

 That is so sweet, Joey. Right, cause thats the only thing we could potentially celebrate. 

 Obviously. 

 All right, well, later, bunny. 

They leave and Joey sits on her bed and begins reading

Telephone rings and the answering machine picks up, and Joey just listens to the message. 

 Joey. Hey, its me, Dawson. Long time, no talk, huh? Heh. Uh, listen, Im in town, actually, for the weekend. Um, I was wondering if you wanted to get together, maybe for, uh, some coffee or something. 

British guy Get off the bloody phone, leery! Im not paying you to chat up some bird! 

 Hold on. One second, Todd. Uh, Joey, if you get this, meet me at 200 at, um, this coffee shop. Paleo sun. Its on the corner of front and princess. Ok? I gotta go. Bye. 

British guy Leery! 



Commercial Break



 Grams house. Jack is sitting on the couch playing some video games on the TV, when  comes downstairs in a suit, uncomfortably trying to put on a tie.



 What do you think? 

 Yeah. Yeah, thats, uh, pretty slick, dude. Nice fit. Looks better on you, actually, than it does on me. 

 You dont think its too flashy, do you? 

 Uh...whats the job again? 

 Well, Im selling stocks. 

 What do you know about selling stocks?

 Not a damn thing, but Audreys father seems to think Id be good at it. He told me Im a natural born hustler and I should take advantage of it while I can. 

 Well, you got to admit, pace, you do possess the appropriate degree of obnoxiousness for that particular vocation. 

 Thanks, pal. 

 Mm-hmm. 

 Sighs So, this is life at grams house, huh? 

 Yeah. Pretty much. 

 Its kind of... 

 lame? 

 I was gonna say quaint, but, yeah, lame pretty much sums it up. 

 Yeah. Plus, its getting increasingly difficult to have a life, if you know what I mean. 

 Oh, yeah. I know what you mean. No, I dont. What do you mean? 

 Come on, you know. You meet somebody, you like them, you want to take them someplace a bit more intimate—

 Oh. Mmm. 

 You probably dont want to hear the rest, so—

 well, dont censor yourself on my account. I mean,  Witter is nothing if not a card-carrying friend of the gay. 

 Yeah.

 You ever think about getting a place of your own? 

 Yeah. All the time. Just cant afford it. 

 Right, and neither can I, but... what if you and I were to get a place together? 

 You and me, roommates? 

 Sure. Why not? 

 I can think of about a million reasons why not. 

 Name one. 

 Well... can I get back to you on that? 

 Ok, Im finding us a place to live. 



 School Lecture hall.  goes into the class, which is already full, and finds a seat next to the aisle and sits down, and tries to get situated



 Is this art history? 

She turns to see Grams sitting in the seat next to her.

 Ohh! What are you doing here? 

Grams Same thing you are, dear. 

 What, youre in my class? 

Grams Mm-hmm. 

 Oh, this is so uncool. 

Grams I tried to tell you this morning, but you were just prattling and I could barely get a word in edgewise. 

 How did this happen? 

Grams Well, I attended one of Cliftons summer school classes and it was such a delight. Id forgotten how much I enjoyed the classroom, so I decided right there and then to go back to school. 

 Great. So not only are you going to embarrass me into an early grave, but youre also doing this for a man? 

Grams nifer, give an old woman some credit. I am doing this for myself. 

 Ok, fine, but why did it have to be art history? Why cant you take a nice little math class? You know, from what I hear using that part of the brain helps the elderly stave off the early onset of Alzheimers. 

A teacher stops nest to them while walking down the aisle

Teacher Ladies, am I gonna have to separate you two? 



 An Apartment.  comes walking up the a door where the sounds of someone playing the drums comes from. He is carrying a paper in his hands, and stops at the door.



Drums playing 

Knocks 

the drumming stops and a woman opens the door

 Hi. 

 Hey. 

 Emma. 

 . 

 Come on in then, . 

 Thanks. Wow. Emma, this place is fantastic. 

 Yeah, it is. Expensive, too. 

 begins tapping drums

 these yours? 

 Uh, no, theyre my boyfriends. Cause, you know, its so f-ing impossible to believe that a girl could play a musical instrument that they must be someone elses, right? 

 Thats not what I-- I got a bit of foot-in-mouth disease. But if its any consolation, you sounded great. 

 Like I said, the place is expensive. Are you a student? 

 No, no. You? 

 Yeah. Berklee school of music. 

 The drums. 

 Yeah. 

 Right. 

 You have a job? 

 Uh, actually, no, not really—

 well, it was lovely to meet you, . 

 Oh, no, no, no. I have this huge job interview tomorrow. If that counts for anything. Does it? Ok. Emma, you have a fantastic place here. And if you gave me a chance Im pretty sure I could swing it cause I also have another friend whos looking—

 another guy? 

 Yeah, a great guy. 

 No, living with guys is a terrible idea. It always ends in disaster. I have a lesbian couple coming over to look at the place again tomorrow, and both Debbie and Donna are gainfully employed. 

 But do you think they could help you with the drum kit down the stairs every time you have a gig?

 From the look of them, yeah, they could. And they look better than you, in fact. 

 Ok, I can take that. If you need to emasculate me thats fine, but give me a chance. Let me bring jack by, introduce you. 

 Look, Im sure this jack is a world-class charmer, but its really not necessary.

 Im not really understanding what it is that youre so fearful of here. Is it the sexual tension thing? Cause I know that could be awkward, two guys and a girl living together, but I can pretty much guarantee you that there is absolutely no possibility of either Jack or myself falling in love with you because it-- because-- that didnt come out right. But theres a good reason. Let me try again. 

 Look, it wont be necessary. 

 No, what Im saying is that neither—

 Bugger off, chum. 

 Because hes ga….

She closes the door in his face



 Class room. Jack and  are sitting next to each other getting ready for class to start



 What are you doing? 

 Im trying to make sure that grams isnt in this class, too. 

 Come on. Give the old girl a break. Besides, I dont think the history of pop culture is exactly her speed. 

 Who knows? The womans crazy. Like a fox. 

The sound of a door closing, and jack sees a rather handsome man walk into the classroom

 Ok, ok. I-- whoa. 

 What? 

 Clears throat 

 sees the guy as he walks up to the podium and puts his bag down

 Whispers Oh, hes beautiful. 

 Yeah. What you said. 

Professor Welcome, friends and neighbors, to what I hope will be an enjoyable semester. Im betting you guys think its gonna be an easy ride. And when you look at some of the things were going to be studying-- things like the films of Keanu Reeves, the rise of the WB, and why reality TV shows are bad for the soul-- 

 Whispers Do you think hes gay? 

 Youre asking me? Come on, I got the worst gaydar going. 

 I think hes gay. How much you wanna bet? 

 How about $1 million? Imitating Austin Powers

 Done. 

Professor All right. Im available to answer any questions at any time. Truth be told, Im pretty much just like you guys. A pop culture junkie. My wife thinks I watch too much TV, and shes probably right, but I have a built-in excuse. Its my job. 

Jack mouths the word WIFE

 How do you want it? 

 Hundreds. Im all about the Benjamins, baby. 



 Joey sitting at a table outside the Coffee house. She is reading a book while waiting for Dawson. She starts to get antsy, looking at her watch and back to the book. She continues to do this for a while then grabs her bad, and rushes off.  Professor s class. The class has already started, and Joey tries to sneak in quietly



 Last exit to Brooklyn is considered a classic of post-war American writing. There are in my—

 notices her trying to sneak in 

 hello. How are you? 

 Good. 

 Have a seat, please. Can we get you anything? Make sure that seats ok cause there seem to be some available over there. This is fine. Where was I? Oh. Right. Last exit to Brooklyn is considered a classic of post-war American writing. There are-- 

Cell phone ringing 

Everyone begins looking at their phones, and Joey notices t is her phone that is in her bag, and shyly pulls it out

 If you cant make it stop, will you just answer it already? 

 I dont want to be rude. 

 Fine. You dont want to answer it, I will. He takes the phone and answers it Hello? Whos this? Audrey. No, this is professor Greg . No, Joey cant come to the phone right now. But is there any message youd like for me to relay? Sure. Yeah. No, ok. I got it. Yeah, right back at you. 

He hangs up the phone and gives it back to her. Several of the class mates are giggling

 So, where were we? Clears throat You know what? Before I forget, Joey, turns out Dawson couldnt make it. He was a little crazed, but he wants to meet you and the gang at Hells Kitchen at, like, 830. Ok? 

 Thanks. 

 My pleasure. So, where were we? Right, ok. Last exit to Brooklyn. Any thoughts? Joey? 

 Uh... honestly the truth is I only had a chance to read one of the vignettes. 

 Joey... its the first day of class and already youve broken a promise. 

 Im sorry, but—

 Action, Joey. Not excuses. So, uh... what did you think of what you did manage to read? 

 I thought that it was heartbreaking. Um... I mean, the people, theyre...doomed. Its like a world where the sun never shines. 

Man scoffs 

 You. Whats your name? Hello? The guy who scoffed, points to himself. Eddie is played by Oliver Hudson Right, yeah. 

 Eddie. My names Eddie. 

 Eddie. Hi, Eddie. Whats your beef, Eddie? 

 I got no beef. 

 Oh, no, thats crap. I sense an opposing viewpoint. 

 No, no, I just, uh-- just, uh... 

 well, come on. Out with it. 

 I dont know, I just feel like its a little condescending to feel sorry for these people. I mean, who says there cant be beauty in a world where the sun doesnt shine? 

 Youve read the whole book, havent you, Eddie? 

 Yeah. Years ago. Its awesome. 

 Well, youve got one up on Ms. Potter, anyway. So, moving on. – 

Eddie winks at her, then fade to black



Commercial Break



 Hells Kitchen.  and Audrey are playing pool.  takes a shot and sends the cue ball flying off the table, and Emma, who is working in the bar, catches the ball and puts it back on the table



 Ooh! Im so sorry. Hi. 

 You again. 

 Well, this has got to be some kind of sign, dont you think? 

 I think its more like an omen of bad things to come. 

 Whos this? 

 This, my dear, is ms. Emma Jones. The one who has that fantastic apartment I was telling you about. 

 Oh, right. 

 And this, ms. Emma Jones, is my sweetheart of a girlfriend Audrey. Key word being "girlfriend." 

 What are you going on about, exactly? 

 That I have a girlfriend. Right here. A beautiful, wonderful girlfriend. 

 Good for you, mate. 

 But I have a girlfriend. So you have nothing to worry about. You know what I mean? 

 Not really, no. 

 Ok, you tell her. 

 Tell her what? 

 Tell her what a good guy I am. What a great roommate I would make. 

 Im not telling her anything. Shes hot. 

 Well, thank you. 

 Youre welcome. I dont want you living with a hot girl. You two seem to get along. 

 Thats great. Changing gears for a second, Id like to introduce you to my friend Jack. Jack, this is Emma. 

Jack is trying to eat, when  turns to him. Jack has just taken a big bite of food

 Hmm? 

 Say hi, jack. 

 Oh. Hi. 

 Jacks gay. 

 He doesnt look very gay. 

 Jack? 

 Hmm? 

 You? Gay. 

 Oh, yeah. 

 See? 

 Well, good for jack, then. 

 So, are we any closer to getting the apartment? 

 No. 

 I didnt think so. 



 Outside Hells Kitchen. Joey looks through the window and sees Audrey, ,  and Jack all sitting at a table, and smiles and goes inside. We  a little bit later, and Joey is standing at the juke box with a scowl on her face, when  comes up to join her.



 This is so unfair. When are they gonna play my song? 

 Well, maybe the jukebox rejected it on the grounds theres been plenty enough whiny chick-rock for one night, thank you very much. 

 Bite me. 

 Rowr.  bites her arm

 . Gross. So. Now would you like to explain yourself? 

 Why would I want to do that, exactly? 

 Earlier today. A certain frantic desire not to be confined to a certain dorm room with a certain bosomy blonde with whom you spent the entire summer. 

 Oh, that. 

 Yes, that. 

 Snap, clap Do you remember our particular summer together? 

 Rings a bell or 2. 

 Ok, good. You remember how when we came back we were all lovey-dovey and we didnt really want the summer to end, as such? 

 Speak for yourself, but... I do recall something to that effect. 

 Lets say for the sake of argument that I am not at all unhappy that this summer is ending. Which is not to say that I didnt have a good time, because I did, absolutely. Its just that a different Hollywood party with different Hollywood friends every night and "Hollywood Audrey" is a little... 

 Exhausting. 

 In a word, yes. 

 Look, Ive got a conflict here, because... see, the part of me that happens to be your close friend and erstwhile paramour says, hey, lifes too short. You gotta do what makes you happy, right? But then the other part of me, the part that happens to be Audreys close friend and college roommate says, you know what? You break her heart, I break your face. Got it? 

 I got it. 

 Come on. 

They go over to join Audrey,  and Jack at the table

 So, where is he? 

 "Godot" leery, you mean? I dont know. This is what it was like all summer long. He was out the door before we got up and he was never home any earlier than midnight. Todd kept him really busy, I guess. 

 Whos Todd? 

 Do you remember the director that fired him last summer? Well, he hired him as his assistant this summer. Thats Hollywood for you. 

 What about Oliver? 

 Audrey laughs He flipped out, hated L.A., Kept saying that he could literally see his soul leaving his body. He left this note on Dawsons pillow that said, "Ill see you in hell, Leery." Dramatic to the end, that one. Didnt you talk to him at all? 

 Oliver? 

 Dawson. 

 Oh. Um... no. I kept meaning to call, but... 

 Interesting. 

 Im gonna go check on my song. 

Joey heads to the Jukebox, where Emma is walking by when a man begins to beat on the machine

Man Im telling you, this thing ate my dollar. 

 Well, its a jukebox, not a vending machine. You were expecting it to spit out a candy bar, were you? 

Man Are you getting smart with me? 

 Im afraid thats unavoidable. 

Joey joins them

Man What are you lookin at? 

 A drunk guy with his fly open. What are you looking at? 

The guy leaves

 Laughs That was pretty good. 

 It was nothing. You were doing pretty well yourself. 

 Yeah, working in a place like this definitely sharpens your tongue. 

 Tell me about it. I spent my high school years waiting tables at a place like this. Turned me into a surly wench. 

 You wouldnt happen to be looking for a job, would you? Cause we could definitely use a surly wench who can handle herself. 

 Um... I dont know. Maybe. 

 Um, whats your name? 

 Im Joey. Joey potter. 

 Im Emma Jones. Well, think about it, Joey. 

 I will. 

 And I know the jukebox is all backed up. Im still waiting to hear "White Wedding," myself. 



cut back to the table.



 All right, well, look, its been a barrel of monkeys, but Im going home. 

 What?! You amateur! 

 I gotta get some rest, sweetheart. 

 I dont know, . If I were in a hiring position, Id wanna see somebody come in with suitcases under their eyes and reeking of booze and sex. 

 Ok, well, I will take that under consideration, but Im still gonna go. 

 I dont like this new . Not one bit. What happened to the  of yore? 

 The  of yore is exhausted. The  of yore just drove 3,000 miles in 3 days. Arent you tired? And dont you have classes tomorrow? 

 Well, yes. But I also have my priorities. 

 Ok, demanda. Im going home. Brothers, sisters. 

He leaves, and goes outside, where Audrey comes racing up to him

 Hey, Witter! Wait up. 

 Aw, come on, Audrey. How many times do I have to tell you? I need some rest. 

 Please dont be annoyed with me, . Trust me. In, like, 2 minutes youre gonna be sorry that you were so annoyed with me and youre gonna feel like a jerk, and I want to save you that pain. 

 What are you talking about? 

She takes out a keycard for a hotel and hands it to him

 Whats that? 

 It is a key to a room in the most ridiculously swanky hotel in all of Boston. I thought that we should spend the last night of our summer vacation together in style. I mean, with all the motel 6s and whatnot, I thought it might be a nice change of pace, pace. And I promise I will let you rest. No sexual misconduct. Nothing. Just total hardcore REM sleep. 

 Youre right. I feel like a jerk. 

 See? I told you that was gonna happen. 

 Did you, now? Look, Im sorry. I just-- I really want to make a good impression tomorrow. Your father was kind enough to go out on a limb for me, and I dont want to let him down because that would kind of be like letting you down, and that would suck. 

 ... 

 Yes. 

 Youre getting all serious on me. Come on. Lets go rest. 

 I dont know how strict we have to be about that whole "rest" thing. 



 Inside Hells Kitchen. Joey is sitting at the table and talking with Jack and  about job prospects



 So I can either work for this cranky professor and advance my academic career or I can work here, be hit on by drunken louts and make excellent tips. Whats a girl to do? 

 I dont even think its a choice for you, Jo. 

 Yeah, me neither. 

 What do you mean? 

 Come on, given a choice, Joey Potter will always venture down the sensible path, and the sensible path in this case would be to work for professor cranky pants. 

 Nicely put. 

 Thank you. 

 Im shocked and appalled. Thats what you think of me? 

 Jo, its not a bad thing. Its just, you know, its who you are. And we love you for it. 

 Yawns All right. I gotta go home. Our lady of continuing education wants to hit the bookstores bright and early, so I need to get some beauty rest. You coming, Jackers? 

 You talked me into it. Jo, you coming? 

 Um, no, I think Im gonna stick around here a little while longer. What? 

 Nothing. Its cute. 

 Sighs Go. Go on. Get out of here. 



They leave and we see a montage of s of the night while Joey sits and waits. She continually keeps looking back at the door from time to time She is there for a long time before she finally gives up decides to leave. She exits Hells Kitchen and crosses the street as a Cab pulls up to the bar.



 Joey! 

 Mmm. 

She turns and smiles 



Commercial Break



 Inside Hells Kitchen. Joey and Dawson are sitting at the bar, talking to one another. You can see that they are very happy to finally be spending some time together



 All right, so guess what? 

 What? 

 Take a guess. 

 Youre gay. 

 That and... I was on the phone with Steven Spielberg the other day. 

 Really? 

 Sort of. 

 What do you mean "sort of"? 

 He called for Todd, and I said, "hold on a second, please," and I put Todd on. 

 Thats it? 

 My hands were shaking. 

 "Hold on a second, please"? Thats the best you could do for your childhood hero? 

 I thought for sure I was gonna miss you again. 

 You almost did. Everyone left. I was next. 

 But you couldnt bring yourself to leave, could you? You had to see me. 

 Get over yourself. Ill have you know that I stuck a dollar in that jukebox over 3 hours ago. I was not gonna leave until I heard my song. 

 Ok. All right. My mistake. 

 So tell me about this movie youre making. 

 Um, its a horror movie... no matter what Todd says. He likes to tell people that its a Hitchcockian thriller, but thats kind of like saying Happy Gilmore is an homage to Woody Allen. You look great, by the way. 

 Thank you. 

 I dont say things like that nearly enough. The second I saw you I thought to myself, "god, she looks great," but I didnt say anything, so... Im saying it now. 

 Is this some player routine you work shopped in L.A. Over the summer? 

 Can a guy not tell a girl that she looks great without there being some sort of manipulation involved? 

 Generally, no. 

 Ok, good point. But this is you and me. General rules do not apply to you and me. They never have. 

 Can I ask you a question? 

 Ok. 

 We didnt talk this summer. At all. Why is that? 

 Quick and easy answer would be that I was really, really busy and there just wasnt any time. Which is true, but... its not really it, because I thought about you all the time, and about what you said about how everything would just kind of work itself out between us and it just... made me feel so good about us. I just...well, I guess I didnt want to ruin that feeling. Does that make any sense? 

 It makes a lot of sense, actually. You know what this means. 

 What? 

 Dare I say we might be growing up? 

 Oh, god. 

 What? 

 That sounds so boring. 

 True. Sad but true. But I mean... case in point. You seem...different. 

 Different how? 

 Just different. A good different... like living your dream agrees with you. 

 I dont know that fetching lattes and having Todds Porsche detailed qualifies as living the dream, but... 

 you know what I mean. 

 Yeah, I do. So what about you? 

 What about me? 

 Did you do anything special this summer? Did you meet anyone special? 

 Mmm, no one worth mentioning. And you? 

Suddenly Joey finally hears her song play on the jukebox.

 Ah! Finally! 

 I know this song. This is a great song. 

 Yeah, it is. 

 What? 

 Nothing. It just reminds me of something. The summer between seventh and eighth grade, and clueless. 

 Was it on the soundtrack or something? 

 No. At least, I dont think so. Um... we went to see it at the rialto, remember? And when we got out it was pouring rain, your mom came to pick us up, but the car was, like, way across the street so you grabbed my hand and we ran for it. And it was probably only about 10 seconds or so, but when we got in the car, all I could think about was the fact that... you had held my hand. 

 So what does it have to do with the song? 

 It was playing on the radio in your moms car. 

 Oh. 

Dawson gets up, and reaches his hand out for Joey to join him

 What are you doing? 

 I was gonna ask you to dance. 

 Are you crazy? 

 Yeah, but the offer still stands. 

They dance to the song



 Joeys Dorm Room. Dawson has just walked Joey back to the room, and they go inside and Joey puts down her bag and coat.



 Thank you for walking me home. 

 No thanks necessary. Its what I do. All right, I should probably go. 

 You dont have to, you know. 

 I dont? 

 Audreys with  tonight. 

 Oh, cool. 

 So you can take her bed if you want. 

 I could very easily get a cab back to the hotel. 

 Of course not. I dont want you walking around out there this late. 

 Thanks. 

 No thanks necessary. 

 Its what I do. Make yourself at home. 

Joey goes into the bathroom, and gets ready for bed. Joey comes out of the bathroom and Dawson is asleep on Audreys bed. She goes over to her bed and climbs in with a semi-disappointed look on her face

 Jo, you awake? 

 Yeah. 

 Im sorry. I fell asleep. 

 You must be exhausted. Get some sleep. We can talk in the morning. 

 What time is it? 

 5 of 1200. 

 Damn. 

 Whats wrong? 

Dawson walks over to the clock above Joeys bed and moves it from 1155 to 1205

 What are you doing? 

 Cheating. I cant wait anymore. He reaches into his bag, and pulls out a gift bag and hands it to Joey  Happy birthday, Jo. 

 Youre the only one who remembered. 

 Yeah, Im good like that. 

 Thank you, Dawson. 

She opens it and pulls out a snow globe of Hollywood

 Its cheesy. I know. 

 No, its not cheesy at all. Its perfect. 

 You know what you were saying before, about how living my dream agrees with me? Ive been thinking about that and I want you to know that I probably would not be living any dream at all if it werent for you. I mean, more and more I keep on finding myself in these incredibly surreal situations and every time... I always kind of, in the back of my head just think, "what would Joey think if she could see me right now?" You know, I guess everyone has someone who challenges them and makes them shoot for something just beyond their reach. Youre that person for me. So, yeah, maybe we didnt talk this summer, and who knows, maybe well find ourselves talking less and less as time goes on and life gets more and more in the way, but... I gotta say, Jo, I dont feel it. Cause youre with me everywhere I go. Happy birthday. 

 Thank you. 

They hug for a long time, and Joey slowly feels Dawsons hands rubbing her back, and suddenly doesnt know what to think. She slowly pulls back, and they look deeply into one anothers eyes. After another long moment they begin to lean into each, at first pressing their lips together and then more passionately kissing one another. The kisses lead into heavy petting and then Dawson slowly lowers Joey onto the bed, and they continue making out, and the camera fades to black
 Joeys Dorm room. Joey and Dawson are wrapped up with one another sleeping together, Dawson behind Joey all curled up. His hand is resting on her hip, when she slowly brings hers up to his, and he entwines their fingers in one anothers. Joey rolls over, and begins kissing him, and then they begin to make love again. Fade to Black.  a little. Joey wakes up alone in bed and finds a not on her pillow. It reads “Went out for Breakfast” The door opens as she reads this, and Dawson comes in carrying some coffee.

 Hey. 

 Hi. 

 Youre up. 

 Yeah. Um, you went out. 

 Yeah. 

 Could you... 

 sure. 

Dawson reaches the hook, and grabs Joeys robe and hands it to her.

 Thanks. 

 So I got you a-- 

 did you get me a latte? 

He pulls up a Single White Rose, and hands it to her

 Roses. All over Worthington. 

 Kinda hokey, dont you think? 

 Yeah, thats exactly what I think. 

 Well, its a $500 fine to pick one of these. 

 Worth every penny. 

 So we should probably stop and think about this. You know, about what it means. I mean, about how this will change... He kisses her things. 

 Maybe later. 

The begins making out again. Fade to black



 Hotel Room. Audrey is in bed, and she grabs the phone and begins to dial for room service.  is in the Bathroom getting ready for his first day at work



 yes. Hello. I was wondering if you could bring up-- 

 no, no, no, no. No room service for you this morning. 

 What? We can afford it. 

 We? 

 Ok. My dad can afford it. What do you say, champagne? Bloody marys? 

 I say that were not on the set of dynasty and you have class in an hour. Now, which tie? 

 Mmm, I dont know. Theyre both kind of hideous. 

 Ok, look. Youll have plenty of time for fashion critiques once I actually get the job, but for right now, I just dont want to be late for the interview. Ok? 

 Im sure that it is just a technicality. Trust me. When my dad pulls strings, they stay pulled. How do you think I got into Worthington? 

Audrey begins to tie s tie for him

 Oh, oh. Are they always supposed to be this tight? 

 You have actually worn a tie before, havent you, ? 

 Of course I have. Once. 

 Once. 

 Yes, once. 

She kisses him as he gets up from the bed

 Mmm. 

 Ok. Wish me luck. Im out the door. 

 Luck! 

 leaves, and Audrey instantly grabs the phone

 Yes, hello. Is this room service? Oh, my gosh. You know my name. How cool. Yeah, Im feeling a little continental this morning. 



 Outside the school campus.  and Grams are walking towards some tables, after returning from the book store.



 Ok, so we share the art history. Um, all this Kafka is mine, and they gave us a math book by mistake.

Grams Oh! Ill take that, thank you very much. 

 Wait a second. Math? Dont tell me you actually took my advice. 

Grams Stranger things have happened. 

 And I suppose this has nothing to do with the fact that a certain someone actually teaches math? 

Grams Are you implying that theres anything wrong with taking interest in someones lifes work? 

 I think its a slippery slope. I mean, one minute youre taking an interest and the next youre sublimating your own thoughts and desires, and for what? For a grand chance to participate in the great patriarchal heterosexist fraud that is better known as monogamy? I mean, is that really how you want to spend your golden years, folding some mans laundry and pretending to actually share an interest? I mean, havent we come further as a sex--

Grams notices that the guy sitting behind them is staring at the back of s head as she is going on.

 what? 

 turns to see the guy looking at her

 Hi. Hi. Im sorry. Are we bothering you? Because, perhaps if its not too much trouble, you could just get your own conversation. 

Guy No. Sorry. Its just that Ive been sitting here trying to figure out where Ive met you before, and suddenly I realized Ive never met you before. 

 Great. Well, Im really glad that we got that figured out. 

Guy Ive heard you on the radio. 

Grams She was on the radio.  gives her a dirty look Well, you were. She was very good, too. 

 Ok, you got me. Im busted. I was on the radio. But Im not anymore, so... thank you very much for listening and buh-bye. 

Guy So did you get fired or what? 

 What is this, an interview? 

Guy Im just curious. 

 Sighs Well, lets just say that I had some... artistic differences with the new management. 

Guy Fine. Then well just say that. 

 Fine. 

Grams Excuse me, young man. Would you care to join us? 



 The Stock Interview. Rich, the manager, is lecturing a group of new recruits including  who are all sitting around a large table listening to his every word.



 Its 835 on a Saturday morning. The phone rings. Who is it? Cable company, phone company, debt consolidators. Why do they keep calling back? Because it works. Now, if you dont think you can do that, if you dont think you can commit to becoming the lowest form of life, the kind that lives by his wits, the kind that doesnt take no for an answer, then I suggest you leave. No. You know what? In fact, I insist you leave. Right now! 

No One gets up and leaves

 All right, then. To clarify The hours are long, the pay is crap, when youre not working, you will be studying for your series 7 stockbroker exam. There are no second chances here. If you do not pass this test on your first try, you will be let go from the training program and replaced by one of a zillion other guys who would kill to have this job. Questions? 

 looks around then raises his hand

 Well, given how completely and historically screwed the market is right now, why would any sane person want this job? 

 Same reason people play the lottery. 

 You mean money? 

 No. Not that theres anything wrong with money. I mean hope. That tiny surge of adrenaline that courses through your veins right before you check the winning numbers. Thats what were selling here. Thats what every stockbroker sells, and you all wouldnt be here if you didnt want some of it. So, those of you who want it bad enough, Ill see you Monday morning. Otherwise, disperse. 

Everyone leaves, and Rich is finishing up a piece of paperwork, when  stops to talk to him

 I actually do have one more question. 

 Shoot. 

 Who the hell are you? 

 Rich Rinaldi. 

  Witter. And, Mr. Rinaldi, I dont need till Monday morning. Im in right now. 

 Look forward to working with you, . 

 Ok. 

 goes to leave

 And, uh... you might want to rethink that suit. Seems a little gay. 





 Joeys Dorm room. Dawson is getting all his stuff together, as Joey is in the bathroom. Dawson looks over and picks up the snow globe that he gave here and looks at it, when Joey comes out of the bathroom.



 Hi. 

 Hi. You look beautiful. 

 Thank you. Do you have to work today? 

 Yeah. Yeah. Uh, but I was thinking maybe we could get together later on. 

 Great. 

 Like around 500? 

 Sure. 

 Ok. Ill, uh, Ill call you. 

 Great. 

 Not like, "Ill call you," like the bad cliche, like I say that Ill call you and I never do. 

 You mean not like e standard blow-off you get from a frat guy trying to make a graceful exit from the worlds most embarrassing hook-up? 

 Yes.. Im mean not like that. 

 Not embarrassing. 

 No None of that. No. 

 So I guess were in agreement that since last night, words have totally lost all meaning. Because I just spent 15 minutes in that bathroom trying to think of something to say to you, and, well, all I could come up with was "hi." 

 I liked it. It was heartfelt and sincere. 

 It was idiotic. 

 I can top that. The note that I left on your pillow this morning? 4 drafts. I spent like an hour trying to come up with something historically meaningful to say to you, something that would encapsulate everything about how I felt about us, about sex, about the most incredible night of my life, and you know what I came up with? 

 "Went out for breakfast." 

 4 of the dumbest words in the English language, and not one of them says what I meant to say. 

Cell phone rings 

 I have to get that. Hello. 

Todd Leery, Im waiting! Why am I waiting, you ask? Cause youre not bloody here. 

 Yeah, sorry about that. I was-- 

Todd youre just gonna get your ass over here, thats what youre gonna do. 

Hangs up the phone

 Go. Call me later. 

 Ok. And then we can talk. We can finish what we were-- 

 right, but I have one important thing to ask you right now. 

 What? 

 What happened to the other 3 drafts? 

 Oh, I tossed them in the dumpster. 

 I see. When you went out to get coffee? 

 Yeah. 

 I thought that was a little suspicious. 

 It was, actually, and--and now that you mention it, um... 

Cell phone rings 

He looks at the caller ID, and it reads SATAN. Joey notice it an smiles

 Todd calling. 

 How could you tell? 

 Im assuming Satan could only be one person other than Beelzebub himself. 

He answers the phone

 Hello. 

Todd Im gonna need a triple espresso and some sort of pastry-type situation, preferably Italian. 

 Im on my... Click Way. 

 Go. Get out of here. Im afraid to see what happens if the devil calls 3 times in one hour. 

 You know, before I leave, I just want to make absolutely certain-- 

 Dawson... 

She kisses him

 Whispers Shut up. 

She kisses some more to keep him quiet.

 Good-bye. 

Dawson leaves, and they both lean against the close door back to back without knowing the other is doing it too.  



Commercial Break



 Dawson comes into an alley, carrying a coffee and a pastry, and finds Todd standing in it. Todd is just getting off the phone.



Todd Would you murder someone in this alley? 

 Yeah, you, for wanting to change a location 18 other people have signed off on. Here. 

Todd What? No 20-minute speech on how youre too good to get my coffee? 

 No 20-minute tirade on how its cold? 

Todd I must be mellowing. 

 Or Ive been bringing you decaf all summer. 

Todd Ha ha ha ha! Right. Which would explain the lack of me yelling at you this morning when you failed to show up at our prearranged meeting place. 

 That was a lack of yelling? 

Todd You werent in your room, either. 

 No. I spent the night at a friends. 

Todd A friends? Had I known you actually had any friends, I wouldnt have wasted valuable production dollars on lodging you. Well. Well...details. 

 Not a chance. Every good thing thats happened in my life Ive essentially managed to talk out of existence. Im not gonna do that this time. 

Todd Suit yourself. So, what am I doing today? 

 Youll find out when you get there. 

Todd Enough. 

They get into a car and leave



 Hells Kitchen. It is early, and the bar has just opened. Joey walks into the bar, and begins looking around, when Eddie from her Lit Class runs into her as he passes by her.



 Excuse me. 

 Yeah. 

 You obviously dont remember me, but-- 

 oh, yeah. Sure. Nice to see you again. 

 Excuse me. 

 Sorry, I dont really have time to chit-chat. 

 Im not attempting to forge some kind of social connection here. 

 Well, good, because-- 

 you can just apologize and well move on. 

 Apologize? 

 Yeah. 

 Look, its really simple. You read the book, you come to class. Preferably in that order. 

 You finished? 

 Yes. 

 Good. You bumped into me just now in your mad dash to read the lunch specials. 

 Well, Im sorry. 

 Thank you. 

 Didnt realize you were so delicate. 

He leaves, and Emma comes walking up to her

 Hey! You came back. Joey, right, from last night? 

 Yeah. 

 So you decided the glamour and prestige of waitressing was for you, after all. 

 Well, lets just say Im currently re-aligning my life priorities. 

 And getting your bum grabbed by a bunch of sadistic drunks is in your top 5. 

 No, but... Im trusting my instincts for a change. So, is the job still available? 

 Yeah. Ill put a word in with the manager. Oh, in the meantime, fill this out. 

She hands Joey an application

 Thank you. 

 No problem. 

 He doesnt eat here often, does he? 

 Him? Not particularly, no. looks over at Eddie Oh, he does work here. Hes the bartender. 



 Grams House. Audrey is sitting at the table as  is finishing up cooking some food. HE takes a plateful of spaghetti and walks over with a ladle of sauce over it.



 So, no classes today, either? 

 No, I had to shop, you know, for the thing tonight. She tries unsuccessfully to stop him from putting sauce on the spaghetti on the plate Oh, honey, dont put the-- 

Jack comes into the kitchen

 mmm. Something smells good. 

 Here. Bon appetit. Thats ok. 

 So, uh, whats the verdict, man? 

 Oh, man, I looked at 5 apartments this morning, leading me to the inevitable conclusion that everything in our price range is both disgusting and roach-infested. 

 Except for this place I looked at yesterday. 

 Yeah, but is it clean? 

 Its immaculate. 

 Whew. 

 Jack, Im scandalized. Is that an obviously gay trait that youve just revealed to us? 

 Hey, Im clean. All right? Sue me. Try living with someones grandmother for a few years. 

 The solution here is really obvious. We gotta go back. We gotta try again. We have to convince this woman of why it is she wants to live with the two of us. 

 If she doesnt want to live with guys, she doesnt want to live with guys. Who can blame her? Who wants to deal with all those little shaving hairs in the sink when youre trying to brush your teeth in the morning? Ecch. 

 Honey, as much as I love you, youre missing the point. He is a neat guy. 

 Thats one way of putting it. 

 And you are a slob. Admit it, , youre not just a guy, youre a guys guy. 

 Ok, granted, yesterday I may ha been a guys guy. Today, I am a guy with a job. 

 You got it? 

 Yeah. Yeah. 

 Congrats, dude. 

 Well, its not so much a job, really, as an opportunity to become the lowest form of life, which Ill explain later, because right now we have an apartment to get. 

 Mmm. We? 

 Yes, we. 

 dials the phone and hands it to Audrey

 Swallow. 

 Heh heh heh. 

The just finishes her mouthful when Emma answers the phone

 Hello. Hi. I was, um... I was wondering if I could come look at the apartment today. 



 Outside on the campus grounds.  and the guy from earlier are sitting at a table talking still.



Guy No, I think its nice. 

 Yeah, thats what everybody says. "Oh, you live with your grandma. Thats so sweet." How do they know I dont beat her with a stick and leave her tied to the radiator all winter? 

Guy Is this a cry for help? 

 Do I look like I need help? 

Guy No. Actually, you look like someone whod probably be good at giving it. 

 Oh, god. 

Guy What? 

 Oh, no. Its not your fault. This is my fault. This has happened to me before. This religion thing is not really--god. No! Not god. Not god. Im gonna go. 

Guy Wait, look. Youre right. I do want something from you. Several things, actually. But, first, I want you to sit back down. 

 Sss...ok. Ill perch. 

Guy Fine. 

 Im not fully committed to the sitting. 

Guy Understood. Um—

 I could leave at any moment, especially if you continue to not say anything. 

Guy Sorry, its-- this is kind of a difficult thing to phrase properly. Um... no matter how I say it, Im gonna sound like a total dork, so... have you ever heard of the stand? B

 Buh-bye. 

Guy W-wait a second. Wait a second. Its not a religion. Its a peer counseling program. 

 Youre saying you think I need counseling? 

Guy No. Im saying I think you could give counseling. 

 Oh, you mean help people. 

Guy Yeah. Look, all Im asking is that you come to an information session tonight. It starts at 700. 

 And youll be there? 

Guy Yeah, Ill be there. 



 Joey comes walking along the side of a large warehouse, in a very deserted area of Boston. She continue to look around lost, and then picks up her cell phone and dials it.



 I think I made a huge mistake. 

 Excuse me? 

 A wrong turn or something. I mean, this cant be the place Im supposed to meet you. Theres no "here" here. 

Dawson is at work on the set, and slowly makes his way towards one of the outer doors.

 Wrong again. 

She turns around to see Dawson standing holding the door open for her.

 What is this place? 

 This is where were shooting the movie. Well, most of it. Actually, did I mention it takes place in the seventies? 

 No. 

 Yeah. A bunch of teenagers obsessed with the Boston stranger end up spending the weekend at this old house in cape cod, scaring the crap out of each other, of course. 

 Sounds familiar. 

 Yeah. Actually, Im really proud of the set. Todd let me have a lot of input into the design. 

 Why is that? 

 Because Im a valued assistant. 

 I suspected as much. 

 And he doesnt trust his production designer. 

 A notoriously shifty race of people? 

 And he says he has no friggin idea what a typical American house should look like. 

 A typical American house? 

 Come o whats it like being me? 

They turn the corner, and come across a set that looks just like the porch of Dawsons House. They go inside, and Joey can see that the interior is also Dawsons house, and is surprised and impressed at the same time.



Commercial Break



 The Movie Set. We pick up exactly where we left off with Joey looking around in shock.



 Dawson, this is incredible. 

 All that stuff about you cant go home again. 

 You can. 

 Through the magic of movies. 

 Isnt your mom gonna freak when she sees your house in a horror movie? 

 Heh heh. It probably wont be too good for property values, but you got to admit its kind of cool. 

 Its more than cool. Dawson, this is spectacular. Its like its your movie. 

 Well, except its not. Im just the directors assistant. 

 Come on, you have to admit youve come a long way since sea creatures from the deep. I mean... its like its the real thing. 

 As real as something can be thats entirely an illusion. 

 Entirely? 

 Well, see for yourself 

The go upstairs to the door of Dawsons bedroom, and open it to find an empty area that opens up to the roof of the porch. The walk out to the edge and look down, and Dawson walks up and puts his arms around Joeys waist.

 Chuckles Yeah. We, uh... kind of ran out of money. Hmm. 

Todd comes walking over to them from below

Todd Leery, you sick bastard! How many times have I told you... hello, hello, hello. Leerys got a bird. 

 Oh, boy. 

Joey and Dawson go down to meet him.

 Todd, Joey. Joey...Todd. 

Todd Hey. 

 Hi. 

 Joey goes to Worthington. 

Todd Whats that, like a college or something? 

 Yeah. 

Todd Never heard of it. So, what do you think of our set? 

 Um, its amazing. 

Todd It will be. Do you still got that list we made of all the bloody things wrong with it? 

 Every bloody one. I already got the art department started on the corrections. 

Todd Excellent. Were coming back and filming in 2 weeks, you know. 

 Thats what I heard. 

Todd So, youll, uh... youll come back and visit us then, then? 

 I hope so. 

 Ok. Bye. 

Dawson leads Todd away from Joey for a minute

Todd Youve giving me the bums rush out of here, isnt you? Is that so you can take the night off and go frolicking with that bird? 

 Something like that. 

Todd So, what times the car leave for the airport tomorrow? 

 800. Wake-up call 730, second wake-up call 745. 

Todd Right. So, Ill see you then. Go get em, tiger. 



 Emmas Apartment. Audrey,  and Jack have just arrived and walked in looking for Emma.



 Whoa. Nice place. 

 Yeah. Yes, this is definitely the one. 

 All right, so were all clear on exactly what it is thing we need to do here, right? 

 I dont know. It might actually be a little too nice. 

 Audrey-- 

 yes, clear. Audrey Liddell, character witness for the defense. Whatever. Hello? Hi. Im, um, Im here about the apartment. 

 I remember you. For yourself? 

 In a way, yes. 

 In a way that involves you living here and me never having to see either of these 2 wastrels again for the rest of my natural-born life? 

 Not exactly, no. 

 Im afraid theres been some sort of mistake. 

 Whoa, hey. Just hold on a second here. Youre not even gonna let the woman speak her mind? 

 Well, the fact that shes with you raises serious doubts as to whether she has one. 

 Look, I just want a second chance because I obviously did not make the best first impression yesterday, but I am positive that if you did give me a second chance, I could sell you on the obvious benefits of living with 2 fine young gentlemen like-- 

Two women walks down the stairs and stop halfway down

Woman yeah, hi. Um... we thought it over and well take it. 

Emma turns back with a mocking smile on her face for 

 Sorry. Its too late. Nice tie, by the way. 



 The counseling Center.  is standing near the door, as one of the members is giving a pep speech to the people who have all gone there.



Woman Ok, so, as I was saying, most of what we do around here is simply information and referrals. And 99 times out of 100 just reminding someone to take a deep breath... Inhales And to keep on breathing is enough. Tomorrow will be another day, for you, too. Which brings me to our number one rule around here Never be afraid to ask for a hug at the end of a tough day. 

Gen Leaves and runs into the guy from earlier outside.

Guy Hey, ! Hi. You made it. 

 Yep. Made it. 

Guy Well, lets go. Were late. 

 You know, Im sorry. I cant go back in there. 

Guy Back in there? 

 Yeah, I was already in there. I saw the posters, the-- its just--its just that its not for me-- the hugging and the one day at a time. 

Guy Oh, ok. I see. So, youre one of those people whove found some other way to live, one that doesnt involve one day at a time. 

 Look, I dont want to knock your system. Im sure that its a really good system, but-- 

Guy its just not cool enough for you. Thats fine. 

 No, I didnt say that. I--I mean, honestly, I think its really nice that you have something that you believe in like that. 

Guy You say that like its a bad thing. 

 No, it--its just that Im not much of a joiner. Um... it was really nice to meet you... and good luck, and...bye. 

 goes to leave

Guy So, then, why did you come? 

 Um...thats not obvious? 

Guy For arguments sake, lets say its not. 

 I made myself this promise over the summer. 

Guy What was that? 

 That, no matter what, I would really do things differently this year, like try to make new friends and stuff, and I cant do that by pretending to be somebody that Im not, because then those friends that I make would think that Im something that Im not. 

Guy And what arent you? 

 Well, for starters, Im not as great as a person as you think I am. 

Guy Well, thats too bad. It was nice to meet you. And no matter what happens this year, I hope you do one thing. 

 Whats that? 

Guy Change your mind about yourself. 



 Emmas Apartment.  is still trying to convince her to let them move in.



 Listen, Emma, youre gonna have to take my word for this, but lesbians are notorious for committing too soon. You give it a week, theyre gonna be splitsville and throwing your appliances at each other. 

 How do you know Im not gonna be throwing my appliances at you? And, for that matter, how do you know Im not a lesbian? 

 Thats a good point. 

 And you make your living selling people stuff. 

 Chuckles Its just I-- when you stop and think about this, youre going to realize that the benefits to living with the two of us far outweigh the disadvantages. So lets just think about it for one second, shall we? How is it that 2 schlubs like us can afford to live in a place like this, because the neighborhood is not that great, am I right? I am right, so you gotta give me that one, right? Living with 2 guys, its like having free security. Secondly, I am a fantastic cook, and I will cook you anything, anytime, anywhere, but the piece de resistance, and we discussed this last night, I am a thoroughly monogamous, domesticated, American male with a girlfriend, a steady girlfriend. 

He points to Audrey, who takes a cue from this

 Yeah, its true, you know, about the cooking, although... well probably actually be breaking up soon, and then god knows what string of hos hell have running through this joint, and hes really noisy, too, 

Laughs 

 Especially when hes, um, having-- 

 honey? Honey. 

 Darling. 

 Sweetheart? 

 Yes. 

 Sidebar. 

 Sure! 

 Excuse me. 

 pulls Audrey aside. While he is doing this Jack has gone over and begun talking to the two women interested in the apartment.

 Well, I mean, you know, its a pretty cool place... yeah. But she told you about the--the mice problem, right? 



He looks over at Audrey and  who are having a conversation of their own

 Ohh, god. Chuckles Thought you were gonna be helping on this. 

 I didnt like this situation last night, and now that I see you bantering back and forth with that girl, I like it even less! 

 That Girl? That girl hates me! 

 I know. She hates you too much. I dont trust it! 

The women with Jack look a little worried.

Woman Thank you. 

 Sure, no problem. Yeah, anytime. 

The women begins to make their way out of the apartment

 Hey! 

Woman Thank you very much. Lets go. 

 He--hey--no! Hello! Wait! Please stop. Where are you going? Hello! Hi! Wait! Wait! Come back! 

Emma tries to stop them

 What did you say? 

 Oh, my love for this apartment knows no ethical boundaries. 



 The movie set. IT is the end of the day, and everyone is leaving. The lights begins to shut off when Dawson finally comes over to join Joey who has been waiting for him.



 Im sorry that took so long. 

 Oh. No problem. 

 So, I was thinking... 

 mmm. Always a dangerous proposition. 

 Yeah. Im thinking I wanna take you out tonight. For your birthday, officially. If you dont have other plans. 

 Well, Laughs Considering no one else even remembered my birthday, I cant imagine any other plans I would have. But, Dawson, Id kinda like to change first. I-- I thought maybe we could have a, uh, drink before dinner. 

Dawson leads her through the house set, and makes his way onto the porch, and stops, and flicks a switch an hundreds of twinkle lights around the porch light up. Dawson points to a table on the porch where there is a gift basket lying next to it.

 Kinda hokey, dont you think? 

 Yeah, thats exactly what I think. 

 You put a little thought into this. 

 Just a little. 

 Whoa! There must be, like, $100 worth of stuff in here. 

 Mmm, its probably more like, 200. 

 reads card "Dear Todd, thanks for choosing us. We look forward to processing your dailies"? 

 Champagne? 

 Dawson, isnt Satan gonna notice that this is gone? 

Pop 

 You know how many gift baskets a Hollywood director gets at the start of a new production? 

 How many? 

 A lot. 

He hands her a cup full of champagne

 A toast. To Joey potter... on her 19th birthday, a day that will live in infamy. 

 A great day. 

 And one that hasnt ended yet. 

They begin to kiss again



 Outside Joeys Dorm room. Joey and Dawson come walking up to the door hand in hand. They stop before going into the room.

 Its late, isnt it? 

 Mmm. 

 Guess we sort of lost track of time. 

 Yeah, in a good way. 

 Meaning? 

 Times the enemy, right? Our enemy? 

 Mmm, youre not planning on turning into a pumpkin at midnight? 

 No, but I am leaving tomorrow. 

 And then what? 

 And then I come back. 

 Back to what, exactly? 

 To us. 

Cell phone rings 

 Do you hear something? 

 Nope. 

 You should answer that, you know. 

 Why? 

 Because you love that job. 

Sighs and laughs 

He looks at the phone and hangs it up

 Not him. 

 Youre lying. 

 No, Im not. 

cell phone rings again

 Dawson, yes, you are. 

She grabs the phone from him and opens it up to look at the caller ID

 Im not. Wha-- hey, Joey! What--giv--give me-- 

Laughs 

 Whos the girl? 

 Joey... 

 no, whos the girl calling your cell phone? 

 Thats not fair. 

 No, tell me. Who is it? 

 Nobody. 

 Oh, nobody. Thats interesting because she-- s

 hes a friend. Shes a--some friend from L.A. 

 Well, first shes nobody, and now shes a friend. Which is it, Dawson? 

 Shes just a girl. Shes a girl Ive been kind of seeing. 

Audrey comes out of the dorm room, and interrupts them

 Hi! Um, are you guys gonna stand out here all night? Because, um, were trying-- not very successfully, mind you-- to throw you a surprise party. 

Joey and Dawson go into the room and find Audrey, , Jack, and  inside.

All Hey, surprise! Happy birthday! 

 Giggles You hate it, dont you? No! 

 Fake Applauds Lucky me! 



Commercial Break



 The Dorm room. Joey is receiving a gift from Audrey, but everyone can sense the tension in the air.



 Do you love it? I got it at Fred Segal, so you cant return it even if you dont, but not that you would because its totally stunning and everything! 

 I love it, Audrey. Its great. Its just what I wanted. Thank you. 

 Youre welcome! 

 Joey, is something wrong? 

 Oh, no! God, no, I-- wow, it-- excuse me for a second. 

She grabs Dawsons arm and drags him into the bathroom after him and begins yelling at him, and every word can be heard outside the bathroom.

Door slams 

 You have a girlfriend?! I slept with you last night, and you have a girlfriend? 

 To others This is a very unhappy birthday. 

 I didnt say that. I said Id been seeing someone. 

 Seeing someone! What the hell does that mean, Dawson?! 

 I dont know, but the point is, Joey, I broke up with her the second something happened between us. 

 How?! How, in your mind?! 

 The first thing this morning. Where do you think I went when I left? 

 I thought you went out for breakfast! I didnt know you were getting up early to go break up with someone else! 

 Well, would you rather I didnt? 

 No! I would rather you werent involved with someone when we finally sleep together! 

 Joey, Im sorry if this ruins the fantasy, but this girl means nothing to me compared to you-- 

 you shouldve told me! 

 When? Where? 

 Before! 

 Joey, stop! 

 Why? Why stop now? 

She exits the bathroom with Dawson following her

 Everyone here who thinks Dawson shouldve told me he had a girlfriend before he decided to sleep with me, raise your hand. 

The girls raise their hands but the guys dont

 Youre blowing this way out of proportion. 

 Uh--uh, ok, maybe you guys should, uh, just take a breather for a moment, let cooler heads prevail?

 Or we could just leave. 

 Uh, thats a great idea. Lets go. 

 Uh, no, I cant. 

 Honey, nows not the time. 

 Im sorry. I know that Dawsons our friend, too, but I personally cannot leave until Joey says its ok. 

 Its fine, Audrey. 

 Ok, good. Happy birthday, Jo. 

 They are gonna rip each others heads off. 

 Lets just go. 

The all leave Joey and Dawson alone

 We didnt talk at all this summer, which was your choice as much as it was mine. 

 So I asked you to lie to me? 

 Joey, you and I both know if either one of us had stopped and thought for even a second last night, then what we did never would have happened, and I for one am not sorry that it did. If you are, then thats-- thats a completely separate argument. Thats actually a much bigger deal than-- 

 Dawson, you have a girlfriend! How is that not a big deal? 

 Had a girlfriend, Joey. And, look, Im willing to admit that the timing on this is far from perfect, but Im sick of waiting for this so-called perfect timing thats obviously never gonna happen for us. 

 Oh, yeah, right. You know, its... better to just get it over with and move on, you know? "Slept with Joey. Just... cross that off my list of things to do." 

 You know thats not how I think. 

 How do I know that, Dawson? I havent talked to you all summer. Apparently youve changed so much that youre willing-- 

 you really think Id wanna sleep with you and not want it to mean more, Joey? You think Ive been waiting all these years for us to have one night together and then go our separate ways? 

 Oh, Im sorry you got sick of waiting, Dawson. Im sorry that I wanted our first time to mean something more than just-- 

 it does mean more, Joey! It-- I mean, it--it means everything to me. I-- I dont know what it means to you. 

 Oh, youre saying that I wanted this to happen? 

 No, cause that would involve you actually knowing what you want, which we both know is not likely to happen anytime this decade. 

 Oh, great, you know? Use something when I was a child! 

 Youre still a child, Joey. Youre still the same scared little girl who-- 

 who what? Who what, Dawson? Who broke your heart? God! Is the statute of limitations ever gonna end on that one? Ever?! Dawson, Im sorry I dont have the same dreams I had when I was 15 years old, and Im sorry that I moved on faster than you did, but you know what? Maybe not everything that happens to you is my fault! And maybe just because I want more from my life than-- 

 more than what? More than us? You dont know, do you? Youve never known. The entire time Ive known you, all youve wanted to do is escape. From me, from Capeside. I mean, you say that Im the dreamer. Im the one who doesnt wanna live in the real world. Well, Im doing it, Joey. Right now. Im living in the real world. Its you who wants the fantasy. 

 I want the fantasy? 

 Yes. 

 Who lit the candles? Who bought the champagne? 

 Who dumped who 4 years ago? Joey, I know what I want. Ive always known what I want. Before we destroy whatever chance we might actually have at having a relationship, Im asking you, please, stop and think about this. Is this really what you want? Is this... really the way that you want things to end between us? 

Joey thinks this over and the camera fades out



 Hells Kitchen. , Audrey,  and Jack are sitting at a table together after getting out of the war zone.



 They do this all the time, right? No big whoop. I mean, its normal to fight. Its healthy. 

 Ooh, I dont know if healthys the word I would use to describe their relationship. I mean, Im all for "will they, wont they" finally getting their shot, but for 2 people to be that dependent on each other for their lifes happiness is just-- 

 incredibly romantic? 

 Or perhaps structurally unsound? 

 Yeah, Ill second that. 

 Whoa, wait a second. All of a sudden youre coming out as some sort of nonbeliever? 

 Hey, lets not forget who broke them up the first time around. 

 Ooh! ? 

 Oh, dont look at me. Im too far messed up in this thing to have an opinion. I am just the road kill on the Dawson and Joey highway. 

 Laughs 

Emma walks up carrying a tray of drinks

 Ok... 4 incredibly expensive soft drinks. 

 Thanks. 

 Thank you. 

 Can I get you lot anything else? Didnt think so. 

Emma leaves and Jack goes after her

 Uh, Emma, hold on a sec. 

 Yes?

 Listen, I, uh, just wanted to apologize for this afternoon-- 

 you can have it. 

 Excuse me? 

 The flat. You can have it. I just didnt want to give your little friend there the satisfaction, but he was right about the security. The neighbors got broken into twice last year. So, if you like, you can move in at the weekend. 

She hands him a set of keys

 You will not regret this. 

 Oh, yes, I will. 

 Chuckles Thank you. 

Jack calmly walks back to the table like nothing has happened

 So what did she say? 

He throws the keys onto the table

 Were moving in this weekend. 

 Seriously? Yes! Grr! 

 Ok, I suppose a toast is in order, though why I should be toasting to you leaving me all alone at grams is beyond me. 

 Yeah, and I dont really think I should celebrate something that could be the death knell of my relationship. 

 Well, were in a bit of a bind then, cause we do need a toast. 

 Well, uh... to friendship then. 

 To friendship. 

 To friendships. 

 To friendship. 

Audrey laughs 



 Joeys Dorm Room. Dawson is sitting alone on the floor at the foot of Joeys bed, while she is in the bathroom crying. The camera goes back and forth between them, until finally Joey dries the tears from her eyes, and walks out of the bathroom, and Dawson slowly looks up to her.



 What times your flight? 

 1000. 

 You should probably allow extra time-- 

 I will. Why are you doing this, Joey? 

 Were doing this, Dawson. Its what we do. Its what we always do. 

 Last night was real. Today was real. Its you, not me, who doesnt wanna deal with the realities of an adult relationship. 

 Youre right. 

 Thats it? Im right? 

 I want the fantasy. I want more than anything for us to be together. But not like this. Not screaming at the top of our lungs about things that happened 4 years ago. 

 But if we cant argue like this and get past it, then... 

 maybe theres nothing here worth saving. Maybe last night was just...

 Just what? 

 Just 2 old friends making a huge mistake. 

 Wow. If thats the way you feel, then--then I... should go. 

Dawson grabs his bag and leaves. He closes the door behind them and begins to walk down the hall. He stops and goes back to the door, and just as he is about to grab the handle of the door, he stops himself. We see Joey on the other side of the door, with her hand almost on the door handle too, and she is also slowly pulling away from the handle.

 Sighs

Dawson leaves, and the time passes in Joeys dorm room, we eventually find her lying on her bed crying, and sh is looking at the snow globe that Dawson gave her, and the camera pulls to it, then fades

 Joeys Dorm room. Joey is sitting in front of her laptop computer, trying to type an email to Dawson, and all she has managed to type so far is “Dear Dawson” and the title of the email “The Incident”. And from there she does not even know how to continue. She spends a long time trying to figure out how to start the email, but just cant figure out how to start. Audrey is just getting back to the room.

 Sighs 

Door opens 

 Oh, my god! Youre still there, like a vegetable. 

 Writing a good e-mail is hard. 

 Yes, especially when it is a huge mistake. 

 Shut up. 

 Joey, I am serious. E-mail expression is the scourge of the modern age. The internet has made it way too easy to express oneself. Ok, you have some fleeting thought. You send it. It lands with a thud in some unsuspecting persons mailbox. Said person then reads it, gets irked because youve recapped a conversation that you presumably already had. They fail to respond. You feel slighted. But if you must be one of these pathetic passive/aggressive e-mail types, far be it from me to stop you. What do you have so far? 

 Well... I had "Dear Dawson," and then I erased it. 

 Why? I think thats a nice start. 

 I seemed cold. 

 True. I mean, you did just nude-up with the guy. Oh, Im sorry, or did you guys do it through a hole in a sheet because thats very Dawson and Joey to me. 

 Again, shut up. 

 Sorry. Ok, so what do you want to say?

 I dont know. I mean, I dont like the way things ended, and I want him to know that I care, but I also want to hold on to my righteous indignation. 

 Obviously. Well, why dont you just pick up the phone and call him? 

 Im afraid well just fall right back into our old patterns. Trust me. E-mail is a far safer alternative at the moment. 

 Ok, if you must do this, then I say that you go for it. You know, be gooey and be embarrassing, but most of all, just be real, Joey. Say all of the things that you cant say to his face, the whole nine. 

 Youre right. I better get to work. But...thank you, Audrey. 

 No problem, sister Christian. 

Joey goes back to the email and her words finally start flowing from her. She spends long hours typing out the email, as Audrey watches for a while, and finally goes to bed. Joey finishes it very late in the night, and clicks the address book and goes to Dawsons email address, and yawns as she clicks, but accidentally selects Campus@Worthington.edu, which was right above his name, and sends the email out to the entire campus.



Commercial Break



 Emmas Apartment. Jack has just woken up and comes downstairs to the kitchen when Emma is sitting at the counter, drinking a rather weird shake like drink, which is grayish in color. Jack half asleep walks by her noticing her drink and continues to the refrigerator.



 Thats gross. 

 Thats gross. Yeah. I thought youd be more—

 sensitive? Well-groomed? Up by 600 drinking a zone shake? 

 To begin with. 

 And I thought youd be little more—

 Snaggletoothed? Sucking down the tea? Choking on bangers and mash? 

 Chuckles Yeah. Well, its a service we provide to those less educated of our cultures-- you and I... we keep them guessing. 

 comes downstairs all dressed up in suit and tie for work.

 Snickering 

 Ok, ok. Yuck it up, kiddies, cause this is how I will appear every morning in all my formal glory. Some of us actually have to work for a living. 

 Oh, poor  Witter has a job that million would want that hes vastly under qualified for. 

 Oh, come on. 

 Whats up with that hair, man? Why is it... the way it is? 

 Its too much product? 

 Now, are you sure that blonde of yours isnt a ruse, ? 

 Emma, you know, if you cant deal with the man love, Slap I dont think this things gonna work out. 

 Dont remind me. And I know youve got this brilliant job and all, but youre still going to have to put the dishes in the wash before you go.

 Which is exactly why I came down here. 

 And you, jack, left the door unlocked last night after the hard sell you two boys gave me about free security. 

 That wasnt me. That was him.  points at Jack from behind his back Im totally nonconfrontational. All right, ok. All right, duly noted. Man, between the suit and nagging its like a good old-fashioned American family around here. 



 Joeys Dorm Room. It is now morning and Joey is just waking up. She walks over to her computer to see if she has gotten a response from Dawson, and when she opens her mailbox, she finds hundreds of responses to her email, and goes to the Sent email box, and notices that she sent the email to the entire school. She begins to freak.



 Audrey! 

 What? 

 Audrey, wake up. 

 What? 

 The e-mail. 

 What about it? 

 I sent it to everyone, not like "the gang" everyone-- countless strangers, "campus wide" everyone. 

 Well, honey, why would you do that? 

 It was a mistake. I was tired. I clicked on the wrong address. 

 See? I told you that wasnt a good idea. 

 Thats all you have to say? 

 I dont know. Sucks to be you? 

Audrey goes back to sleep





 s Work.  is just arriving to work to notice that the place is bustling with activity. HE seems to be a little confused, and notices Rich over by one of the desks and heads over towards him.





 Witter!

 Rinaldi. 

 Thats "sir" until you buy me flowers, Witter. Where have you been? 

 Im really sorry. I was just under the impression that I wasnt supposed to be here until 900. 

 Ahh, "supposed to." Well, thats cute. Are you supposed to dress yourself, or does your mommy actually want you to look like a pansy? Look around. You see these guys? Apparently, these gentlemen are free thinkers. Since youve yet to grow a pair, you get stuck with these. 

Hands him a stack of folders

 And whats all this? 

 That is a collection of about 30 cold days in hell Rich guys sittin on piles of money so high that their daughters eloped and sold their own babies on the black market just to put ramen on the table. We have never been able to sell them stock, and they will certainly never buy it from the tardy likes of you. You better get on the phone. We work on commission here. And the guys on your list dont know how dreamy you are, so I would work that blue collar charm full-throttle. Stop battin your eyes at me. 

 Is this some sort of punishment? 

 Im just tryin to get you to leave. I dont have enough desks. 

Guy Chuckles 



 Pop Culture Class.  is about to walks into an aisle of seats when Jack stops her so that he can go in first



 No, . , can I sit on the inside? I want to sit on the inside. 

 Sorry. 

 What? 

 Ahh... sorry. Are we done playing musical chairs yet? 

 I just want to be able to see the board. 

 Dont insult me with your scholarly guise. You just want to get a good look at freeman. 

They come up to a seat next to Audrey

 And why not? Mother, may I? 

 Audrey, not that we dont enjoy having you here, because we do, but dont you have your own classes to go to? 

 Worthingtons charms are lost on me. 

 Miss one more week, and maybe theyll just kick you out. 

 Awesome. 

 Guys, shh! 

 Ok, I forgot to tell you. This is studious jack, not to be confused with fun-time jack. He doesnt like to miss a word of freemans lecture, so you should just try to keep it down. 

 So tell me something. Between m and grams, how do nap during class? 



Freeman Ok, everyone... 

 You Dont…

 Shh! Shh! Guys, guys, guys.

Freeman Before we get started, I just wanted to inform those among you who are truly enamored with our twisted culture. That theres a little extra credit assignment today. Now, my heart be broken if nobody shows up. I will, however, silently judge you for the rest of the semester. Theres a theater downtown thats showin a double-feature which exemplifies our cultures obsession with the beautiful girl who plays ugly. The plain Janes who go on to grace the covers of Cosmo the same month their makeover movies come out. 

 Oh, no. Scholarly jack is gonna make me watch miss congeniality again. 

 I love that movie. 

 Eh-heh! 

Freeman So, see me after class for details. 



 s English Class. There is a lot of commotion in the class and you can see everyone going over printed copies of Joeys email, and giggling to one another. Joey arrives to class late again, and everyone stops and looks up at her, including  who is handing out some copies of something. Joey walks across the room and sits in an empty seat.



 Ok, kiddies, knock back your ritalin and settle down. You may recall, we were wrapping up a rather depraved discussion of Portnoys complaint last week. Sadly, we wont be dabbling in Roths stream-of-consciousness sexual rivers much longer, but fate assigned us some additional reading last night via e-mail. I think you all got a copy, so why not? Lets discuss something you actually mightve read. "Dear Dawson, I dont know where to begin." 

 Uh, professor —

 nobody likes a show-off, potter. You dont reach a point for several paragraphs, so Ill skip ahead. "In the moment when we touched, maybe we went somewhere else that rose above all this, but then we landed, and I think maybe we crashed." 

Class Laughter 

 Why, when broaching the topic of sex, do so many writers try to write themselves out of it? Sexuality and all its dysfunctions are intrinsic to the human experience, maybe the one thing we can all relate to at the end of the day-- well, neurosis and the god thing aside. And the reason that Roth seduced us and miss morning after here didnt is that while Roth isnt afraid to get his hands quite literally dirty with rapid-fire sensual description, our e-mail author here distances herself from the act with vague metaphors. Cant be stream of consciousness if youre observing from the shores... right? 

 heads over towards Joey and she does her best to ignore everyone. Just trying to ignore that this has happened at all

 Right. 

She looks around and notices everyone laughing at her





Commercial Break



 s place of work.  is trying to sell someone over the phone.



 Well...no. I mean, I certainly understand that logic, Mr..."Engel." But m telling you, if you invest in this stock right now, your value, I mean, its-- itll double...eventually. The stock? Well, the stock-- the stock is strong. I mean, if you-- percentage wise? Well, yeah. Youre probably looking at a good 15--hello? 

The person hangs up

 Smooth, Witter. 

 Ah, the guy just caught me off-guard. 

 Listen, you gotta stop making excuses. Ive heard you on the phone this morning. You think people are gonna relate to a plucky, blue-collar kid from southie? 

 Capeside. 

 Whatever. It still reeks of the white picket and the black lab. Youre talking to these people like youre trying to get a date for Friday night. "Im . Im sensitive. I care about your needs." Thats the angle of the guy thats trying to sell the herald. Dont make him feel like the prettiest girl in the room. Make them feel like morons for doubting your financial prowess. 

 So you actually want these people to hang up on me? 

 No. I want them to believe you, which is never going to happen unless you put some heart into it, Witter. 

 Ok, fine. How am I supposed to sell them the stock? I dont even know what the damned thing is. 

 Find your in with these guys. Become them. Become who they want to be. Think with those judgmental, ageist, racist, sexist, stereotyping parts of your brain that youve worked so hard to conquer. Believe me, youre never gonna land a guy like topper playin the nice guy. 

 And who exactly is Topper? 

 Mr. Eli Topper is the next guy in your pile, fantastically hard sell. He lives in a little apartment on the outskirts of Boston, doesnt want to pay the city tax. He made his money in the eighties, and now hes just sittin on it. 

 Why do you bother going to all the trouble of gettin that money if youre not gonna use it to better your life? 

 Guys like topper believe it can buy them an upgrade in heaven. Since you and I know were never going there, grab your keys. Were goin off campus. 



 Hells Kitchen. Joey has shown up for her first day of work, and Emma is showing her the ropes.



 Ok, so remember, you cant technically pour the alcohol, at least not while Im on with you. No need to bring in the visa beasts. 

 No offense, Emma, but you do know Ive worked in a restaurant before. Ive seen them built. Ive seen them burn down, not that I had anything to do with that. 

 Fascinating, but youve never worked in this dive, now, have you? Come on, then. Have a go at table 3. 



Girl 1 All I know is that I would think long and hard before sending an e-mail like that to a guy I just slept with. 

Girl 2 I know, right? I mean, unless you just never wanted to hear from him again. 

 Do you guys know what you want? 

Guy Come on. Not all guys are like that. 

Girl 1 Oh, whatever, mike.

Girl 2 Youre gay. 

Girl 1 Can I have a quesadilla and a pale ale? 

Guy Well, maybe the guy is gay, too, and thats why he screwed her over. 

Girl 1 Ok, look, she is obviously starving for attention, broadcasting it like that? I mean, really, whats the point? Unless youre on the real world or whatever. 

 You know, maybe-- and this is just a shot in the dark-- she didnt mean to send it to the gossips at large. Maybe shes just trying to get some private closure, never dreamed shed be subjected to the Oprah psychobabble of her life-lacking peers. Now, do you guys want something to eat, or should I just bring over a nice tray of bon-bons so you guys can hunker down and watch your stories? 

Girl 2 Eh-hee! Maybe later. 



 Boston Bay Campus. Jack, , and Audrey are heading to the theater to watch the extra credit movie. When they get there the notice Professor Freeman standing outside



 Laughter Boston bay is not a party school, Audrey. 

 Spare me your lies, . I am not going back to my evil den of higher learning. This is clearly where its at. 

 Hey, the midday keggers get a little old after a few semesters, trust me. He notices Freeman by the door to the theater I tell you what, Im gonna meet you guys in there. Im gonna go talk to professor freeman. 

 Dont you think thats a tad Tracey flick? He doesnt know who you are. 

 Sure he does. Ive raised my hand and talked in class a lotta times. Hes noticed. He has. 

 All right... swim fan. Somebody has got to talk to that boy about his love of the straights. 

 Whatever. Its totally hot. 

Jack leaves them and heads over to Freeman

 Hey. Not a very big turn out, huh? 

Freeman No, um, apparently not. 

 I guess not everybody is as enthusiastic about the girl who cried ugly as we are. 

Freeman Right. Im sorry. Do I know you? 

 Uh, no. Sorry. Jack McPhee. Im in your pop culture class? 

Freeman Oh, Im sorry, jack. That class is massive, hard to keep people straight. 

 Heh heh! Ill bet. Ahem. Ill--Ill see you in there. 

Freeman Ok. 



 Hells Kitchen. Joey is working behind the bar with Emma.



 Youre sure I havent made a fantastic mistake, then, living with those 2? 

 Nope. Im sure you wont be bored. 

 Now, thats a cold comfort. 

She looks up and sees  walk into the bar.

 Youve gotta be kidding me. 

 Him? Yeah, he comes in here all the time. 

 Oh, of course he does. Hes obviously been assigned to ruin my life, and he seems determined to do it in record time. 

 Listen, Im not going to run for cover every time a dark cloud forms over your head. So I suggest you nip this in the bud. Its all yours. 

She leave Joey to him

 I can see why this joint would be much more alluring that the confines of the English department All that silence, all those books. 

 And then, of course, your constant positive reinforcement. 

 Yeah. Right. That would get really annoying after a while. Are you waiting for me to order, or did you have somethin to say? Cause it kinda looks like youve got your bone-to-pick face on. 

 And how would you know what that looks like? 

 Word gets around. Ill just have a tuna melt and a beer. 

 Sure. she turns to get his order but stops and turns back to him. Professor —

 oh, there you go. 

 Yeah, here I go. Look, Im sure your hard-as-nails thing really works for you. Im sure it earns you respect, and Im sure that I will learn a lot in your class. But after today, I really wish you wouldve turned me away when you had the chance. 

 I thought youd be flattered to be in the spotlight. I dont single people out that often. 

 Contrary to what you apparently believe, Im not an idiot, professor , and Im fairly certain in the 20 minutes you spent mocking formative was a major off ramp from modern comp lit. And Id just like to know, does todays total evisceration exonerate me, say, through November, or does this sort of public ridicule delight you indefinitely? 

 Why, I dont know. I mean, were about to get into the poignant ramblings of Joyce and Woolf, and your work provides such a marked contrast. Hey, Joey... you do fancy yourself a writer, correct? 

 Yeah, you could call it a hobby. 

 So Im sure that youve gathered at this point that on top of being neurotic and plagued with self-doubt, writers have to endure public humiliation every once in a while. You were the one that walked into my office promising me fearless academic ego, but I have yet to see it. If you cant handle my class-- and countless have died trying-- why dont you just quit? 

 Im not a quitter. 

 People love saying that. Its like they saw it in some movie once and they liked the way it sounded. 

 Im not just saying it, ok? I wanted to take your class because I wanted to learn something, and I wanted to work hard, but I didnt want to be personally ridiculed in the process. 

 Your heartfelt rant to whats his name proved good fodder for the topic at hand. Its hard to write that sex stuff, which you aptly proved. And if, by chance, one day you manage to get your writing circulated beyond the campus in box, there will always be an irritable writer type claiming to do better. Maybe you didnt mean for this one to go out into the world. Whatever. Bygones. Declare victory and move on. 

 Wheres the victory in this little scenario? 

 One down, only a lifetime of proving yourself left to go. And if youre staying in my class, start proving that its worth it... to one of us, at least. 



 s Car.  and Rich are driving down the road, and Rich is having some trouble with the state of s messy car. He flings a few items from the dashboard into the back seat.



 Man, you dont actually sleep in this car, do you? 

 Not recently. I just moved into a new place. 

 Good cause I dont want to start feeling sorry for you or anything. You dont, uh, see these around much anymore. 

 Oh, come on, man. This is a great car. I mean, sure, its a lot of work, but shes worth it, you know? 

 Yeah. Turn into that dealership right over there. 

 What? Are we goin for a test drive? 

 Eh heh heh! Thats one bonding experience thats passed us by. No. This one is signed and paid for. Just pickin it up. 

The pull up to dealership and see a very expensive car in the window.

 Youve gotta be kidding. You cannot possibly be getting a Z8. 

 Nice, huh? 

 Nice? How could you possible afford a car like that? Youre not that much older than me. 

 Yes, but Im so much wiser. Dont sweat it. Maybe if you snag Topper, all thisll be yours before you know it. Nice car. Ill take it from here. 

 Hey, I happen to like my car, thank you very much. 

 Yeah. Youve got a way to get around town, but its all about what your car says about you. 

 Ok, Ill bite. What does my car say about me? 

 That youre a sentimental fool of a man-child. Youre too weak for a real car, so you tinker with your little medium-cool vintage one. You surround yourself with all things good, but not good enough. You dont want to grow up, so you dont go to school and you borrow your suits and you let your facial hair run amuck. Thats fine, but then why bother getting in the ring at all if youre not even gonna throw a friggin punch? 

 What? 

 Are you gonna go in that office every day and watch guys collect their money so you can write a thoughtful piece about it in your memoirs? 

 Well, maybe I dont care about any of that stuff. Maybe Im just tryin to pay my rent. 

 Come on, . I see somethin goin on in there. Youre not subjecting yourself to me because you like my tie. Youre hungry. So quit effin around and go for it already. 



Commercial Break



 s Work.  is in the middle of a very successful Phone conversation with a client compared to his earlier attempts.



 Hey, I hear you, Mr. Topper. When my father needed an open heart, I didnt even touch my savings. He got himself into that mess, he can get himself out. Right? But look, you and I are both very busy men, and if you dont want to hear about this stock today, thats fine by me. Im just gonna call one of our more active buyers. Well, yes. The... the packet of information that my company sent you is certainly worth taking a look at... but it is nothing compared to what landed on my desk this morning. But, look, you and I... we both know-- youre not one of our more active buyers, so if youre not interested in this, thats fine by me. Just tell me right now, ok? Spare me the niceties, cause I am not your prom date. Ill just call my other guy. I mean, I made him 50 grand last week. Im pretty sure hell be happy to take my call. Right? Ok, so heres the story. The buyers in the market are playing it pretty close to the vest right now. But when they wake up in the morning, theyre gonna be kickin themselves, literally, because the buying price on this will have doubled. And if you get in right now, youre gonna be beatin the guys who wake up in the morning, remember that they actually have a pair, and that greed is good, Eli. And the sucker down the street, hes never gonna know the joy that you know because by getting in early, you made 10 times the profit that he did, and thats somethin youll be able to rub in his face every time you pick up your paper. Ah. I knew you were a smart man the second you picked up the phone, Eli. Chuckles Um, let me just put you through to my assistant, and, uh, you can give her all your information. It has been a pleasure doin business with you. 

 goes to the meeting room, where Rich has just finished a meeting.

 Thanks, guys. Latham, get me that spreadsheet by 300.  The rest of the people leave. Dont you knock, Witter? I couldve been havin a nooner. 

 Oh, I thought you were. Anyway, guess what. In fact, you know what? Dont guess. Youll ruin it for me. I...just closed topper. 

 Youre kidding me. 

 No, my friend, Im not. I closed topper. I sold him some BS line from an eighties movie, and he bought it. It was like I was a profiler. I could smell the cheap beer on this guys breath. He would rather buy stock today and ask questions tomorrow just so long as hes the richest guy on the block that week. Its amazing. I sell, he buys. Its that simple. Can you believe it? 

 You know what? I cant. Man. Witter, I knew you were a sneaky little twerp, but I never thought youd pull this on me. Not today. Come here. Give me a hug. 

 You serious? 

 No. But go to that refrigerator and get us some icy-cold beverages. Im proud of you, son. 

 Will do! 



 The Theater. The movie has just let out, and Freeman is saying bye to a few students, and Jack,  and Audrey come out. Jack notices Freeman, and goes over to him.



Freeman Sighs So anyway, Ill see you Tuesday. 

The student leaves

 Hey, professor freeman. 

Freeman Hi. Jack, right? 

 Yeah. 

 Yeah. Thats jack. Im . Im in your class, too. 

Freeman Thats right. Ive seen you two sit together. 

 Mm-hmm. Hi. 

Freeman Am I losing my mind? Are you in my class, too? 

 No! No, Im just a really big fan of your work. You know? And the--and the work of...beautiful, ugly women everywhere, and Im--Im really just...interested in this pure culture of ours, and... yeah, so... do you guys want to go visit Joey at work and partake in some refreshments? Professor, youre more than welcome to join us if youre into the whole crossing the line kind of thing. 

 You know what? That sounds great. Ill tell you what. Why dont you guys get the car, and Ill meet you at the corner. 

Freeman Youre gonna let me drive the Saab? 

 Chuckles Of course, nifer. Why wouldnt I? Uh, so why dont you two skedaddle, and Ill see you in a second? 

They go skipping off

Both men chuckle 

Freeman Well, there you go. At least I know whos not in my class. Right? 

 Yeah. 

Freeman Did you forget something inside, jack? 

 Oh. No. Uh, no. Look, I dont expect you to know who I am. I just wanted to tell you that, uh, I really enjoy your class. 

Freeman Oh, w—

 And I havent really cared about school in a while. In fact, I havent really cared about anything in a while. But, you know, seeing the work that you put into your lectures and seeing a teacher thats invested in being interesting and dynamic in class and not just tryin to blow through another 50 minutes, it just, you know, really... means a lot to me. I didnt even really know what I was gonna declare as a major, but now its, I dont know if its the way that you word things or its the subject matter, but... I walk away from class still thinking about it, and--and, you know, I just look forward to the next time, and, uh... I was just wonderin how I could become more... involved. You know. 

Freeman Chuckles uncomfortably Are we talkin about the class, Jack, or are we talkin about me? 

 W-wha--no. No. Oh. Um...no, thats not what I meant. Its just, you know-- I--I mean, Im not-- well, I am, but—

Freeman Dont sweat it. Um... look, Im glad you like the class. And, uh...and I think itll show in your work this semester. I-Im walkin this way. Are you? 

 Yeah. Yeah. 



 s Work.  is trying to work on the next client, but is not having much success with this one.



 But, Mr. Ickee, Im telling you, its a one-time-- hello? Cheap bastard. 

 Any luck? 

 Uh, no, not on that one. 

 Yeah, knew you were a one-hit wonder. 

 You wish, man. 

 Here, sport. Buy yourself some lunch. 

He hands him some quarters

 Are you kidding? 

 No, you gotta work your way up here come on, do it fast. No one else is getting lunch today. Theyll think Ive gone soft. 5 minutes. 

 goes to the lunch room where there are several other guys in there talking

Man Did anyone hear it? 

Man 2 No, man, but Johnson said it was killer. 

Man Yeah? 

Man 2 Yeah. Said it was like he smelled the blood and didnt stop until he tasted it. 

Man All laugh He is so frickin awesome. Mmm. 

 Whats going on? 

Man Oh, you didnt hear? 

 Thats why Im asking. 

Man Rinaldi, man. He closed topper. 

All laugh 

 What? 

Man They said it couldnt be done. 

Man 2 The guy is, like, my personal god. 

Man 3 All laugh Hey, ease up, Henderson. Youre lookin a little light in the loafers.

Man 2 Hey, you think hell get a partner for that? 

Man Oh, hell get something. 

several leave and one of them is in line after him by the machine

Man You gonna pick something or not? 

 Uh, no, man. Uh... look, in fact, this ones on me. Enjoy yourself, all right? 

He hands him the quarters then leaves



 Hells Kitchen. Joey is walking towards the bar, when Eddie has just arrived for work. Eddie is heading behind the bar, putting on an apron, when Joey walks up to the bar.



 Hey. You start today? 

 So it would appear. Uh, I need 2 beers and a vodka tonic. Um, Emmas in the back. 

 Oh, yeah, right, you cant pour your own drinks. Well, this should be fun, baby-sitting you on top of everything else. 

 And whats that supposed to mean? 

 Oh, dont get all fired up, ok? You know, Im just not in the mood to take on your rage against the world tonight. Im sure youll be just as oversensitive tomorrow. 

 Oh, I get it. You wanna see me crack, huh? The endless horrors of the day are a waste unless they result in my nervous breakdown? 

 Oh, what, did you have a bad day or something? 

 Oh, like you dont know. Too bad you didnt show up for class today and hear s brilliant critique of my e-mail. That was the high point, I think, although I also loved walking into rooms to hear people whispering and laughing at me, and then theres nothing better than reaching for the last jell-o and getting unsolicited sexual advice from a stranger. 

 Sounds fascinating. Sorry I missed it. 

 You know, contrary to popular belief, I didnt send that e-mail to get feedback from you and everyone else, and I was kind of thinking that since Ive been mocked for the better part of the day, maybe you could spare me and concentrate on your own deep unhappiness for a while. 

 You know, strangely, before you got all... crazy confessional on me, thats exactly what I was doing. I hadnt been planning how to best torture you. You see, we dont just walk off into a void when we leave your line of vision. Some of us even have our own lives and dont even talk about you at all. Now, Im sorry that some brutal ivy league kids made fun of your e-mail today. To tell you the truth, Im not much of an internet kind of guy, so, sadly, I have missed yet another aspect of your riveting, charmed life. But if you cant pour the drinks, can you at least serve them? 

He hands her, her drinks

 Thanks. 



 s work. It is the end of the day, and  is watching everyone leave as he stands there waiting for Rich. Rich grabs his coat and notices  standing there waiting.



 Ahh... Witter. Thought youd gone home. 

 Yeah, I figured you were waiting so you could sneak out the back door. But I just had a question I had to ask you, and--and, please, do me a favor and just spare me the dime store speech on what a sucker I am until Ive left, okay? 

 I cant promise you anything. 

 Yeah, Im gettin that. I just--I wanted to ask you why you bother with the act, with the whole, you know-- the "tough love, let me show you the ropes" act? Cause you dont actually want me to succeed, do you? In fact, youre praying for me to fail. That way you have one less sheep in the herd, right? And if I do succeed, then youre gonna be my friend? No, then youre gonna keep on taking my money that I earned and counting it as your own. 

 Do you need me here for this, or... 

 Well, I just wanna know why you bother! Why would you take the time out of a busy day to build someone up and make them feel like they were worth something if youre just gonna steal all their glory at the end anyway? 

 This is a business. I didnt wake up this morning looking for some plucky kid to take under my wing. I came here to do my job, just like every day. Running you hard? Yeah, thats my job. Singing your praises isnt. Landing Topper, that was a fluke. A genius fluke, but a fluke nonetheless. We dont hand those deals over to the little guys. You havent even taken your series 7. That bodes well for the future, but today? It means nothing. 

 So, what, Im just supposed to turn the other way on this? Im supposed to slap you on the back, congratulate you on a job well done like the rest of your minions? No, man! That is not why I came here. 

 You can do what you wanna do. Maybe youd rather continue floating numbly in the status quo. Maybe you wanna be me, and thats so scary you cant think straight. So walk away, Witter. Its what you do. And this is what I do, and Im freakin good at it. You wish you were this good, and thats why you bother trying. You think someone didnt do the exact same thing to me? Laughs 



Commercial Break



 Hells Kitchen. , Audrey and Jack are sitting at a table when Joey comes up to them carrying a tray. She puts a pitcher of pop on the table, and gives them each a glass.



 Done like a true professional. 

 More like a permanent bar wench. 

 Sorry it was such a bad day, Jo. 

 Serves me right. We dont take kindly to closure in these parts. 

 You know, if it makes you feel any better, I hardly heard about the e-mail all day long. 

 Audrey, you werent on campus all day. 

 Details, Joey! 

 Does Dawson even know about it? 

 No, thats the thing. I mean, it wasnt even addressed to him. My intimate aftermath was discussed in English class, but Dawson will never know. 

 Well, maybe thats not such a bad thing, because this way theres a little more space between you guys, and, uh, technically, you still have a clean slate. 

 Yeah, seriously, I mean, personal humiliation couldve been a lot worse than the public kind. 

 Yeah. 

 What dream world are you two living in? She realizes that they were trying to comfort Joey Oh... right. Sorry. Ok, so, I have an idea, Ill be, like, your sponsor, and then the next time youre Jonesing to express yourself, you can just call me. 

 comes in to join them

 Hey. 

 ! 

 Ohh! Oh, dear, lord. 

 Aah! Today was terrible! Dont ever go back to work, never, never, never, never, never! 

 Dont tempt me. 

 Ohh, you know I will! 

 Hey, guys. 

 Hello, Mr. Witter. Were not drinking, we swear. 

 Rough day. 

 Oh, you dont know the half of it. Can you save a seat for me? Im gonna go freshen up. 

 Yeah. 

 leaves to go back to the bathroom

 Is he ok? 

 I dont know, but its not my fault, I swear.

 notices Eddie at the bar.

 Joey, who is that? 

 Eddie. 

 He is a ruggedly dreamy sort. 

 Hes got a major chip on his shoulder, the size of which rivals only the one on my shoulder. Hes ok. 

 Is Emma still here? 

 Uh, no, she left about an hour ago. I think she was heading home. 

 How is it living with her? Does she run around in her underwear and ask you guys to zip things up for her? 

 Thats funny. Actually, the three of us took a bath together this morning. 

 And I thought you only took baths with grams. 

 returns and turns to Audrey

 Hey, can we go get a breath of fresh air for a sec? 

 Of course, honey. 



 Outside Hells Kitchen. Audrey and  are leaning on his car talking about his rough day at work.



 , that is bull! You cant let this guy get away with it. Hes just gonna keep doing it! 

 I have no doubt that he will, but I dont think tattling on him is gonna do any good. This is the way that they do business. I didnt know that getting in, but I know it now. The only question that remains is how do I get through the days? 

 Well, that doesnt sound like the greatest way to live. , youre 20 years old and youre already waiting for time to pass. Honey, why dont you quit? 

 Ohh, because its not that easy. 

 Yes, it is! , these are supposed to be, like, the easiest days of our lives. I mean, were supposed to be in there with our friends, you know, coming up with ridiculous drinking games and making each other laugh. I think weve all kind of figured out that the real world is a pretty crappy place, so whats the rush in getting there? 

 Because sooner or later you run out of places to hide. Audrey, you seem to be operating under the assumption that you can do whatever you like, and you just cant! I made the grave mistake of peeking behind the curtain, and now I cant pretend that I think the fantasy is the same as the reality. Plus, Ive been killing time for too long. I wanna make something for myself, whether its easy or not. 

 Well, Im sorry that you feel like Ive been a colossal waste of your time. 

 Thats not what I mean, and you know it. You and I come from very different worlds, you know that, right? I mean, I dont even think I realized how different until I went out to L.A. With you this summer. 

 My dad is a heartless old fool just like your dad. He just wears more expensive suits, thats all. 

 Yes, he does. Im not expressing this very well, am I? Im trying to say that... I need respect. 

 I respect you! 

 I know you respect me, and I love you for it, but thats not what Im talkin about. I need respect out there. And maybe I gotta take a different path than I thought I was going to, but cest la vie. The only thing I know for sure right now... is I need sleep! 

 Mmm.

 Mmmm-hmmm So if you and I go home right now, we will sleep, right? 

 We can do whatever you want. Is it always gonna be like this? 

 I dont know. I cant tell. Come on. 

 Now, were not talkin immediate sleep he, are we, baby? 

 No. 

 Good! 

Both laugh 



 Inside Hells Kitchen. IT is late, and  and Jack are getting ready to go Joey is just cleaning up some of the tables near by.



 Uhh! Jo. Thanks. Were outta here. 

 Good night. 

 Bye, guys. 

They leave, and Joey finishes cleaning the table, and walks towards Eddie, who is counting out some money.

 Thats your share. 

 Thanks. Look, Eddie, about earlier—

 Hey, dont sweat it. Hey, I didnt miss anything big in class today, did I? I mean, aside from the, uh, no. 

The song from the Season opener that reminds Joey of Dawson begins playing on the jukebox. Eddie can tell that it disturbs Joey. 

 Man, I--I hate this song. 

 Yeah, me, too. 

Eddie walks over to the Jukebox and kicks it, and the song skips 

 Chuckles 

Eddie kicks it a second time and the song stops and goes onto another one. 

 Thank you. 

They continue cleaning up the rest of the bar together



 Emmas Apartment. Emma is again at the counter drinking her very strange shake like drink. Jack comes downstairs half out of it again.



 Uh, thanks for doing the dishes. 

 Oh, I think that was . I heard him get up somewhere around the crack of dawn. 

 Well, he cleans and he leaves before I wake up. Thats more than I can say for my last boyfriend. 

 Chuckles Man, do I not wanna go to classes today. 

 Why? I mean, aside from typical sloth? 

 Yeah. Ah, its-- its my professor. He just... Sighs Never mind. 

 No, what? 

 Well... I dont know. I mean, we-- we had this really weird moment yesterday where it seemed like I was into him. 

 Well, did it seem like youre into him or do you really fancy him? 

 Yeah, I really fancy him, ok, but I dont want him to know that. 

 Laughs Well, maybe he was flattered. 

 Uh, or maybe he was... married? 

 Well, he should be flattered. 

 Yeah, you know what? Give me--give me some of that stuff. 

 Yeah... ok... 

HE takes a sip of it, and instantly spits it out into the sink.

 Ohh! God! 

 Giggling 

 This stuff is horrible! 

 Laughing Yes, I know! 

 How do you drink this crap? 

 Well... She snaps at him with a twisted up towel come on... 

 yeah, come—

He begins chasing her, and catches her and picks her up.

 Aah! 

Laughing 



 s Work. It is bright and early, and  is the only one there.  goes over and grabs a book from one of the desks and begins thumbing through it, when he notices Rich walk in. Rich is actually surprised to see him there, and  smiles at the discomfort on Richs face.



 Good morning. 

 Good morning. 



 The school Campus. Joey is late, yet again to s class, and is running to make it to the class. Bumping into people along the way

 Oh, sorry! 

She arrives at the class, and makes her way into an open seat.

 Oh, its so nice to see you, potter. Hope our pesky class didnt interfere with your all-important e-mail schedule. Whip out another diatribe last night? 

Class laughs 

 Actually, I did. I was hoping this was it. Did you guys not get it? 

 Oh, this is actually a copy of the article that I assigned to follow up the reading. I know your mini-drama probably prevented you from even looking at the syllabus. 

 Well, most of yesterday consisted of eviscerating my personal life, and every other lesson is a rant composed of your dated theories. Im sorry Im late, professor , but the first half of class is usually when you reveal how bitter you are, how moronic we are, and how literature is dead. Were you thinking of moving on to something slightly more stimulating today? 

 actually smiles at Joeys response to him and continues on with the class.

 Well, I-- I think weve been spending too much time together, potter, if thats your attitude. I mean, I was thinking of teaching today, but I dont know if Ive got a lot to offer, what with the tenure and the published articles and all. But if you all insist on being stimulated, why dont we discuss James Joyces description of the girl on the beach. I mean, Im too hackneyed to illuminate the subject, but maybe you can shed some light. Wilson... what do you think? 

She looks over at Eddie who just smiles and winks his approval to her



 The movie set. Dawson is sitting in a office at his laptop trying to type an email to Joey. He is in the same predicament that Joey was in, not knowing what to say. He starts typing when he is interrupted by Todds voice from the other room.



Todd Leery! Come on, breaks over! 

 Hells Kitchen. Joey is standing at the end of the bar, waiting impatiently, while Eddie is mingling with a few girls at the other end of the bar. She finally gets mad and she slams her tray down on the table, with no effect. Emma comes walking up to the bar next to her, and Eddie takes two beers uncaps them and slides them down to Emma.

 Help? 

 Well, he might notice you faster if, um, if you let me do a little work on that t-shirt of yours. A few rips, a few tears. Do wonders for your tips. 

 My what? 

 Your tips. Your gratuities. Laughs What did you think I said? 

 Nothing! 

Emma takes her drinks and leaves the two of them

 Yes. 

 Oh. Finally. Could you make me wait a little bit longer the next time? 

 Sorry, I, uh... guess I find you a little intimidating now that youve tried to ram your tongue down my throat. 

 I need 2 drafts, a boilermaker, and I thought we agreed to never speak of that again. 

 You know, I dont remember having that conversation. 

 We didnt. It was implied. Social conventions dictate that when something embarrassing happens, we all tacitly agree to never speak of them again. Its what keeps us going as a society. That...and alcohol. 

 Yeah, well, I dont. 

 You dont what? 

 Dont agree. 

 You know what? I really dont feel like getting into a philosophical discussion about this. I just would like you to—

Emma returns for some more drinks

 oh, good god! You two arent fighting again, are you? 

 No, no. Apparently, were having some kind of... uh, philosophical discussion. 

 Oh. Good. Cause Im leaving. Off to rehearsal, where I hopefully still have a few band members left to, uh, fire before our big hells kitchen debut performance tomorrow night. 

 Hey, if you want me to put up some of those flyers for you, I can. 

 Oh, you are a love, arent you? 

She leans over the counter and kisses Eddie on the cheek.

 Mmm! Oh, and its just getting a bit crowded back there, so if you two could just kiss and make up, Im sure the customers would appreciate it. 

Emma leaves

 You told her. 

 Coincidence. What? Why would I tell her? 

 To embarrass me? 

 Oh, now, youre doin a pretty good job of that all by yourself. 

Joey takes the drinks and leaves



Opening Credits



Commercial Break



 Hotel bar. Dawson enters the bar and looks around and finds Todd and  sitting at the bar drinking and talking together. He shakes his head and heads over to them, already able to tell that Todd is really drunk. He heads over to join them



Todd Has anybody told you how pretty you are? 

 Hey. 

 Hi. Uh...you know what? Its getting late. I should get to bed. Big day tomorrow. 

Todd Drunkenly Not to worry. Youll be great, luv. 

 leaves the two of them.

Todd If you werent such a disaster, with women, you might be sneaking off to join her now. Well, carry on. 

 Hold on. Youre not gettin rid of me that fast. 

Todd As I suspected, you are not here to participate in the general debauchery. Youre here to bore me with little work-related details. 

 10 people want to know what plan "B" is for Friday. 

Todd Tell em there is no plan "B." 

 You gotta at least call  Tracy back. Shes called, like, 6 times in the past 2 days. 

Todd Leery, your inability to relax disturbs me. 

 Were 3 days behind, under penalties every day this week. Weve got a monster day tomorrow, no shot list. Theres 70% chance of rain on Friday, and apparently no plan "B." How is that no worries? 

 comes walking up from behind Todd

 3 days? I thought it was 4. 

Todd ! 

 Todd. Dont look so surprised. This is what you get for not returning my phone calls. 

Todd No. Its lovely. Its lovely to see you. Do you remember Dawson? 

 Yeah. We can B.S. The pleasantries later, sweetie. Right now Im gonna need you to get me a better room. The girl at the front desk said its impossible, but Im sure you can work your little P.A. Magic. 

Todd Mouthing "help" 

Dawson catches the key that  chucked at him, and takes this as his cue to leave the two of them alone.



 Emmas Apartment.  and Audrey are sitting in the living room, studying. Audrey is listening to her headphones rather loudly while reading her text book, and  looks up from his book and smiles



 Shouts What?! 

 ShoutsNothing! Audrey shuts off the headphones and takes them off Is it good? 

 Is what good? 

 The book. 

 Scoffs Honey, its required. How can it be good? 

She gets up and heads to the kitchen

 Well, you know, its just the first book that Ive seen you crack all semester. 

Audrey open the refrigerator, and looks inside

 She doesnt actually drink this green stuff, does she? 

 Hey! Audrey! 

 What? 

 Well, Im tryin to talk to you. 

 Ok, Im listening. 

 Great. Then maybe you can tell me whats been botherin you all week. 

 Nothing is bothering me. 

 Really? Cause I gotta say youve been actin a little weird. 

 Ok, . Define weird. 

 Fine. "Weird" is studious. "Weird" is quiet. 

 What, so I act like Joey for a change, and all of a sudden, Im weird? Ok, fine. 

 Look, I just want to know if perhaps you and  mightve gotten into a little bit of trouble at that party last week. 

 No. And you know what? For a former party girl, that girls not even on a first-name basis with trouble. 

 Cause, you know, jack and I were talking, and he said that he lost you at a certain point and you were a little worried, maybe. 

 Well, yeah. , it was crowded, and  ran into somebody that she knew. 

 Oh, really? A guy? 

 Yeah. A nice guy. A regular knight in shining armor. 

 Yeah, Im sure he was. Just like me, right? 

 Yes, honey. Just like you. 

 You know, funny thing. We are all alone here tonight. 

 begins kissing her, but Audrey stops after a few seconds 

 Um... yeah. Im sorry. 

 Oh. 

 Ohh. No, its just that Im really tired and—

 Yeah, cool. Thats—tired. 

 No, because we could--- 

 No, no, no, no, no. Im only-- its all right. Just...pshh...no. Im just... Laughs Its fine. 

 goes back to his chair and goes back to studying



 The apartment. It is the next morning, and  has fallen asleep in the chair studying. Emma comes downstairs and goes to grab the coffee pot to pour herself a cup of coffee, and the pot is empty. She reaches over to the Coffee container on the container, but it is empty.



 Sighs Inhales deeply Hmm. !  doesnt budge, still sleeping ! 

 Yes! What? I didnt do it. 

 You stayed up again all last night, havent you? 

 Yes. 

 And you finished all the coffee. 

 Talking at 90 miles an hour Oh! Ok, yes. But theres more. We have plenty. And you know, its really strange. That thing that everybody says about it being hard to stay up all night-- its really not. Its just that hour from 400 to 500 that gets you. But youd be amazed at what your mind actually retains. I mean, I know all about market options, equity accounts, nonconvertible bonds, but youd—

 ! 

 Yes? 

 Coffee! 

 I got it. 

Reaches into the cupboard and pulls out a new can of coffee. Then they hear the sound of the shower turning on

 Thats not your bloody girlfriend in the shower again, is it? 

 Nope. Thats jack. 

They suddenly hear Audreys voice singing in the shower

 All the leaves are brown the leaves are brown and the sky is gray 

 Laughs 

 Do you know how long shes gonna be in there? 

 Uh, that depends, really, on how big a water tank you have. 

 Didnt we talk about this? 

 Yes, we did. 

 Shes here all the time. 

 Yes, she is. But you know whatd be a great idea? If the two of you would discuss this, and then Ill go to work, and you tell me how it works out when I get back. Ok? Ok. Bye-bye. Have a good day. Bye. 

 makes a quick exit. Emma goes into the bathroom to tell Audrey to stop singing, but stops and listens to her sing.

Audrey singing 

 All the leaves are brown, the leaves are brown ok. And the sky is gray and the sky is gray I went for a-- I went for a walk on such a winter day 



 Freemans Class.  is sitting in the room waiting for class to start when Jack comes over and takes the seat next to hers



 Hey. So, what happened? 

 When? 

 At the party after we lost you. 

 Whered you guys go, anyway? 

 Nowhere. 

 Yeah, right. 

 Look, dont change the subject on me. I want the details. 

 Sighs All right, look, nothin happened. Ok? I mean, what could happen? The guys straight. You know? Even if he magically woke up one morning and he was suddenly gay, its not like I would actually get involved with the guy. Come on. 

 You wouldnt? 

 No. God, no. 

Professor Freeman comes into the class, and heads to the podium

Freeman Greetings, everyone. Sorry Im late. But I see exhibits A, B, C, and D have arrived, by which I mean, of course, my teaching assistants, who may now begin the arduous task of handing you back your papers. Unless, of course, youd prefer to sit here for 50 minutes staring at them while I drone on about representations of the single father in pre- and post-Vietnam American television. 

Laughter 

Freeman No? No, I didnt think so. As you know, these papers represent 20% of your grade, most of which were graded by the T.A.s, of course. But I did review all the grades thoroughly myself, and I am prepared to deal with any and all sob stories that may be coming my way. Just please keep in mind yeah! This is not the first time Ive heard the one about how a b-plus is gonna ruin your chances 

 turns her paper over and sees that she got a B.

 Turn it over. 

Jack turns his over and sees he got a C- and is confused

Freeman Of getting into a decent law school. 

Laughter 



 School Campus. Joey goes walking by a public posting board and sees Eddie hanging up some of the bands Flyers on the board, and walks by. She stops a short while later and heads back to him



 Laughs Shouldve kept walkin. 

 Here. Let me. 

 Nope. I got it. 

 Just trying to be nice. 

 Well, dont. I liked you a lot better when you were surly. 

 I am not-- look, I think that we have both been acting a little immature since the incident. 

 Ive been acting immature?

 I know that I have. 

 Dont do that. Dont back down. If you do that in class today, s gonna eat you alive. 

 I see, and when will you be granting us with your in-class presentation? 

 You know, if you think Im being a jerk, just tell me. 

 And how is that gonna help us get along any better? 

 Oh, its--its not, but lets not pretend things are all nice when theyre not. 

 Theyre not? 

 No. The, uh, "incident," as you so clinically refer to it, was you kissing me on the mouth with some sort of twisted intent weve yet to clarify. Agreeable, yes, but hardly nice. 

 What, so now we have to get into some sort of semantic argument? 

They stop outside the entrance of the library

 So, you coming or what? 

 What, to the library? 

 Yeah. Thats where were headed. 

 Thats where you were headed. And if youre still feeling "nice," you might want to hang some of these up in there. 

He hands her some flyers and then heads off



 The film set. Dawson comes walking up to Todd who is sitting in the directors chair and they both watch as  walks past them screaming on the cell phone at someone. He is carrying a plate of food with him



 Yeah, well, he wants a new D.P and he wants him now. Its not even noon, and shes already fired people on 3 continents. 

Todd 3-egg omelet? 

 One egg, 2 egg whites. 

Todd Lets do it. 

The go over to  who is still yelling at the person on the phone

 Yeah? Well, if I knew that, then Id be the assistant. Listen, sweetie, I gotta go. 

Todd Breakfast is served, luv. 

 Im not gonna beat around the bush, Todd. As your little friend here pointed out last night, youre way behind schedule and way over budget, both of which we could live with if the footage were a dream. But we hate the girl. 

Todd ?

 , Natalie, Nadia, whatever. The one with the nice rack. I know you said you could work with her, but we figure we shut down, we recast—

Todd Hold on a bloody minute here! Yes, she mightve been a bit unprepared, but you dont go and shut down an entire production—

 She can do this job. For a horror movie like this to work, the heroines gotta be both sexy and intelligent.  is that girl. 

 Why do I care what he thinks? 

Todd He is the target demographic. 

 Show her some cut footage. We can put some together by this afternoon. 

 You really think thats gonna change my mind? 

Todd Couldnt hurt. 

Cell phone rings 

 Yeah? 

She leaves them and they both look at each other



Commercial Break



 Freemans Class. The class has just ended and everybody is leaving. Jack and  are still sitting in their chairs looking at their paper grades.



 Ok, well, this has gotta be some kind of mistake. I mean, mines higher than yours. 

 Looks that way. 

 And youve actually been working hard all semester. 

 Yeah, well, apparently not hard enough. 

Jack heads up to the front of the class where Freeman is just finishing up with a student

Freeman Real nice work. 

 Hi. 

Freeman Dont tell me, another unsatisfied customer. 

 I--I just, um... had a question about my grade. Uh, C-minus seems a little low for a paper that you enjoyed. 

Freeman I said that, did I? 

 Yeah, you did the other night. 

Freeman Of course. Uh, what I meant was I really enjoyed the content. Your grasp of structure, on the other hand, is quite rudimentary. I can recommend a few books that might help with that. However, I do have another class I need to get to right now. 

 Yeah, sure. 

Jack goes to leave

Freeman You know, a c-minus really isnt all that bad, Jack. You told me yourself you werent a very motivated student. 

 Well, I guess I thought I was doin better this term. 

Freeman Well, maybe your expectations were too high. 

 Sighs



 The film set. Todd is sitting in a camera sled while one of the workers pushes the sled slowly and Todd looks through the camera trying to set up the shot.



Todd Slower. Slower. Shouts Cut! 

Man Cut on rehearsal. 

Todd Can someone find leery for me, please? 

Dawson comes running up to him

 Here. Right here. 

Todd So, is she gone? 

 She left 15 minutes ago with directions to the nearest gym. Gonna meet with her and the editor when we break for lunch. 

Woman Makeups done with . Were just waiting on camera. 

 Thanks. 

Todd Just the chance Ive been waiting for. 

 What are you gonna do? 

Todd What do you think Im gonna do? Favorite part of the job, mate. 

 You dont mean that. 

Todd Course I do. Nothings as much fun as explaining to the overpaid hairdos how imminently replaceable they all are. 

 I thought you liked her. 

Todd I do. Not as much as you do, of course, which may be clouding your judgment on this matter. 

 Point taken, but how is yellin at her gonna help? I mean, if you destroy her confidence, the days not gonna go any faster. 

Todd Listen, mate, let me let you in on a little secret. 2-bit horror movies that get shut down one week into production? They dont always get started up again. And as someone who works for me, my continued employment might be of some interest to you. 

 So youd fire her just like that. 

Todd If it was a choice between her and me. Thatd be dead easy now, wouldnt it? 

Man comes running up to them

Man Todd. They need you at camera. 

Todd This discussion is not over. 

The start walking back to the set, leaving Dawson alone, and a prop man gets in Todds way.

Todd Scuse me. 



 The Dressing Tent. Dawson walks in, as  comes out of behind some clothing racks wearing no top or bra. She quickly covers up as Dawson adverts his eyes. And she goes over to the chair to grab her bra and puts it on



 I thought I had 5 minutes. Ooh! 

 Um--sorry. 

 Ha ha ha! Black bra, white shirt. Never a good idea. So, I, um... I heard Todd wants to talk with me. 

 Uh, yeah. Its, uh... about this shot. 

 What, its complicated? 

 Well, he...likes to move the camera. 

 Yeah, so I noticed. So, um... whos that woman you guys were talking to this morning? 

 Shes the, uh, executive in charge of production. Shes worried about all the overtime. 

 Cool. Is something wrong, Dawson? 

 No, nothin, other than you being naked when I walked in. 

 Such a prude. If were gonna work together, youre gonna have to learn to get over things like that. 

 All right. Well, youre gonna have to learn how to not leave every room I walk into. 

 Ok, so we both have room for improvement. 

She finally decides which shirt to wear and begins putting it on.

 I know Im in the doghouse. 

 What makes you think that? 

 Look... Todds not the best communicator, and hes not exactly a touchy-feely kind of guy. A girl can tell. Thats why I really need to nail this big  tonight. Help me? My best friends dying, and I dont know what Im supposed to be thinking. 

 Dont think. Your best friends dying. What are you gonna do? 

 I dont know. Save her? Comfort her? 

 And if that doesnt work? 

 Save myself? 

 Exactly. Its-- dont think. Just act. Just--and when Todd asks you to jump... 

 Ask how high. 

 And how far. Always be aware where the camera is. Thats how you communicate with him. 

 Sighs You really think thats gonna work? 

Woman reaches her head into the tent

Woman Theyre ready for you, . 

 Guarantee it. 

 Thank you. 



 s work.  is sitting at his desk, talking on a headset phone to a client. He is very into the phone conversation



 Youre kiddin me, right? I mean, Stan, look, Im as risk-adverse as the next guy, but youre just quittin. Y-youre not even keepin up with the inflation, and, Stan, all Im askin for is a hint of your interest, and I w—  looks up and notices Audrey walk into the office space, and is a little perplexed by it. uh...you know what, Stan? Im gonna have to call you back on this, but I will be in touch, because, believe me, this is gonna be a hot issue. 

He walks towards Audrey forgetting to take the phone off his head and it pulls off and falls to the floor as he goes over to Audrey

 Ah! There you are. Finally! That mean receptionist was—

 Audrey. What are you doing here? 

 No hello? No smooch? Im trying to tell you it took me forever to get past the—

 honey. We cant do this here. 

Man Get a room, Witter. 

 Thats a great idea. Thanks for the tip. Ok, lets go to the conference room. 

 Bye, everyone. 

They got into the conference room

Humming 

 Audrey. You really cant just pop in like this. 

 Well, what am I supposed to do, ? You wont take any of my phone calls. 

 Because Im at work. And when Im at work, Im on the phone, which makes it particularly difficult for me to take other calls. In fact, I shouldnt be in here right now. I should be outside... on the phone. 

 I get it. Ok, please dont be mad at me. Please? Please? The absolute best thing in the world has happened, and I wouldnt have come by if it werent completely major. 

 How major? 

 Emma has asked me to be in her band. Me. For real. I mean, well, its sort of on a trial basis, cause, you know, basically she still cant stand me and she thinks I ate all of her basmati rice or whatever, but we have been rehearsing all day, and we have a gig tonight at hells kitchen. 

 Thats great. 

 I know! It is! Which is why I had to come here and coerce you into coming out this evening. Honey, I need you there. Its kinda like my audition, and, from what I understand, Emma is a little bit of a temperamental control freak when it comes to her band. Say no more. Youre gonna come? 

 I will, just so long as—

 Im leaving. Ok. Bye. 

 watches as she goes, then heads back to work



 s Class. Joey is up in front of the entire class giving her oral presentation, as the class is listening.



 The games continue, and, of course, culminate in the explanation of the cryptogrammic paper. 

 Stop. Im so bored, Im losing my pulse here, potter. When Hubert gets called away for the urgent phone call, he returns to find Lolita doing what with the likes of Clare Quilty? 

 Playing tennis. 

 What kind of tennis? 

 Good tennis? 

 Potter! Oh, you disappoint me. How are we ever gonna learn anything today when the person whos supposed to be teaching us hasnt even read the book? Somebody? Anybody? 

Eddie raises his hand when no one else does

 Eddie. Of course Eddie. Eddie always knows. I mean, rarely volunteers, but always knows. So, please, enlighten us. 

 Doubles. 

 Told you. Always knows. And thank god hes here to pick up the slack for Miss Potter, who... may now return to boring us to death. 

 Hey, you know, maybe if you laid off her for 2 seconds at a time, she might not be so nervous. 

 What was that? A little criticism of my teaching techniques? Because I have to say Ive always considered myself pretty lenient, pretty willing to overlook certain things other, more traditional, by-the-book teachers might not appreciate. 

 Whatever. 

 Oh, you dont agree? Laughs Im ready to make this a larger discussion any time you are. In fact, Ive been ready for weeks now. 

 Am I teaching here or what? Because... the doubles thing is actually very important. 

 I know. Thats why I brought it up. Im gonna give you another chance to redeem yourself. Circa 1940, a well-known Russian émigré writer named Vladimir Sirin ceases to exist. Why? 

Joey begins looking through her note cards in her hand

 S-I-R-I-N. No idea? Perhaps you should ask your always-much-better- informed doppelganger. Eddie. 

 Because he never existed in the first place. 

 Never existed! You mean he was a shadow? A shade? A double, perhaps? Someone passing himself off as someone else? 

 Yeah, you could say that, or you could just say it was a pen name. 

 You could, but its secret identity, nonetheless. Im sorry. This seems a little... off-topic for you? 

 No. Im just saying I get the point. 

 Ah. But do the rest of them? 

 Do they need to? 

 You tell me. 

 Personally, I think the question is moot. But if it really bothers you that much, Ill go. 

Eddie Grabs his bag and leaves

 Oh, well, dont just stand there, potter. Carry on. 

 In a minute. 

 Did you just say what I think you said? 

 Yes. 

Joey walks past  and out the door after Eddie

 Hey. Wait up. 

 Oh, are you leaving, too? 

 No, youre coming back. Look, I dont know what just happened back there, but you cant back down from him when he—

 Youre right. You dont know what just happened back there, so in that case, maybe the best thing for you to do is just mind your own damn business. 



Commercial Break



 Hells Kitchen. Emma is cleaning up a table while Joey is talking to her. It is early in the day, and there are not many people in for the lunch time crowd.



 Well, hes not here. He must not be working tonight. 

 He works every night. 

 Well this is one. 

 Well, you dont happen to know where he lives, do you? 

 Flat somewhere. Take you, like, 2 hours to get there on public transport. 

 You mean he doesnt live on campus? 

 Which one? 

 Worthington? 

 Well, why would he live on the Worthington campus? 

 Um, no reason. 

 You didnt think hes a student, did you? I mean, I know he reads a lot. 

 Yeah, he does. 

 Um... you dont think theyd have his address on file in the back, do you? 

 Probably. 

 Thanks. And Ill be back to close, and good luck tonight with the gig. 

 Thank you. 

 Got a bit of a surprise for you, actually. 

 Really! 



 The film set. Dawson, Todd and  are watching a  in the cutting room.



 on film Somebody! 

Pounding on door 

 on film Somebody, please help me! Help! 

The stop the 

 Well... that constitutes improvement. Adequate instead of abysmal. 

 Thats not fair. 

 to sell phone Get me Chatsworth. To Dawson and Todd I mean, come on. Is she supposed to be looking down at the ground like that, or did she just not know where her marks are? To the cell phone New York, L.A., I dont care! 

She walks away from them

 She barely even watched it. 

Todd Yeah, I can see that, but exactly whose job are you tryin to save here? 

 Everyones. Look, the worst possible thing that happens, you get shut down. Right? So you gotta get her to watch it again, and this time, highlight s strengths instead of her weaknesses. Use that close-up. And change that music. 

He looks at Dawson, and then over to Scott

Todd Do it. Fast. Scott starts, and Todd turns to Dawson And...you stay here. Whats needed now is some cool professionalism. 

 Right. 

Todd goes after 

 All right. Fine. Ill hold. 

Todd , luv. 

 Yes? 

Todd How about we discuss this rationally before you throw out several thousand feet of film? 

 Rational? Rational, like the time you took me to Bermuda with you and dumped me for an exotic dance instructor? 

Todd Look, theres no reason to get personal about it. You know what I mean? Youre engaged now. 

 Working on a film thats about to be shut down... by me and quite possibly never started up again. to the cell phone Still holding. 

Todd Look! You signed off on this girl, did you not? It wasnt some other prada-wearing nightmare I accidentally shagged! 

 For your information, I signed off on this girl because I thought you could get a performance out of her. 

they join Dawson and Scott who were working on the cuts

 And he did. You just havent seen it yet. Scott? 

they start playing the new cuts

 on film Somebody, please help me! Somebody! Help me! Somebody! Somebody, help me! Please! Please! Somebody, please help me! 

 Better, no? Before it was all about the location, whereas now its like were alone with her and her fear. 

Todd What do you think? Your job could be on the line here, too, you know. 

 Well, I think your little friend here makes a good point. 





 outside Freemans office. Jack is waiting outside for Freeman to finish up with the student in his office. He is becoming very anxious while waiting.



 Come on. Exhales 

The door opens and a student comes out

Freeman Jack. Sorry. I didnt know anybody else was out there. 

They go into his office

 Yeah. Must, uh... must take a while to get to the end of all your adoring fans. 

Freeman So, what can I help you with? 

 Look, Ive been thinking about this all day. Uh, theres just one more thing I gotta ask you about this paper. 

Freeman Sure. 

 If I hadnt been so shocked about what you said to me the other night, would this C-minus have been any higher? 

Freeman Low blow. 

 Yeah, cause, you know, Im just tryin to make an informed decision here, and if thats what this is all about, hell, ask me again, cause I just might say yes this time. 

Freeman I dont know what to say. Um... sometimes people read too much into things. 

 Too much? How about too little? Cause Im totally willin to go through—

Freeman I get it. I get your point. You know, its one thing to be some scared teenager, afraid of his-- his friends, his family, afraid of what everybody he meets might think and say about him. You know, I can forgive that. Hell, I can expect that. But you, youre an adult. Ok, somebodys married to you. Youre-- youre ruining lives here on a much larger scale. 

Freeman What can I say? Not everyones willing to make sacrifices for some sort of political agenda. Not everybodys willing to spend their lives being part of a despised minority. 

 Yeah. Laughs Well... thats true. But maybe you should ask yourself whos doin the despising. 

Walks out of the office leaving his paper on the desk



 Hells Kitchen. Audrey is in the back room, nervously awaiting going on stage when  comes back to join her. Audrey is porting a fake Nose and lip ring.



 So you checked. I mean, hes out there, right? 

 Well, Im not exactly sure. Its--its kind of too crowded to tell. 

 How crowded? 

 Way crowded. Why? Are you ok? Youre not scared, are you? 

 No! God, no. Why would I be scared? 

 I dont know. You j--you just-- you seem sort of tense. 

 Im fine. 

 Hey. Um...about the other night. 

 What other night? 

 When we got really drunk. 

 You know what? To be honest-to-god truthful with you, , I dont really remember that at all, so—

Emma comes into the back room

 Ok, ladies, enough checkin your makeup. I think the crowds suitably drunk by now. 

 Does that mean that were on? 

 It does. 

Emma and Audrey make their way onto the stage as  goes back into the audience.

 Hey. The piercings are a nice touch, by the way. 

 Thank you! 

 Screw this up, and Ill kill you. 

 Ok. Sure. 

Audrey goes up to the mic and begins to introduce the band

 Um...hey, everybody. We are the hells belles, and we thought we would play a few songs for you now, you know, something... soothing, something relaxing, something... 

Drum beat 

Drum playing rhythmic beat 

 All the leaves are brown and the sky is gray! Ive been for a walk on a winter day Id be safe and warm, warm, warm if I was in L.A.! California dreamin on such a winter day! California dreamin on such a winter day! 



 Outside an apartment door. Joey comes walking up to the door after checking the address she wrote down on a piece of paper, she goes to knock on the door when Eddie come walking up from behind her.



 What the hell you doing here? 

 God, you scared me. 

 Yeah, obviously. I asked you a question. 

 I just wanted to talk to you about what happened in class today. 

 Yeah, well, since Im not really in that class anymore—

 Look, I know. I get it, ok? I get that youre not really a student. 

 You get that, do you? 

 Yeah. I mean, I dont really get what it was all for, but-- you know, Ive come a long way. Maybe you could just give me a glass of water or something? 

They go inside

 So, my presentation actually went ok after you left. I mean, I just went in there, and I—

 Mm-hmm. Congratulations, Joey. Im happy for you. Yeah. Im sure youre only seconds away from breaking through s crusty exterior, earning his undying respect, and graduating magna cum laude. Or you could just save yourself a lot of trouble and sleep with the man. 

 Is it just me, or do you react this nicely to everybody whos trying to help you? What? No response? 

 Youre gonna have to give me a second here. Im still trying to process the condescending notion that help is actually required. 

 Oh, you dont think its possible I could understand? 

 No, I dont. Look, Joey, Im sorry I didnt turn out to be the person you thought I was, but you know what? Probably not too wise to invest that much in people you barely know. 

 Oh, I havent invested anything in you. 

 Oh, yeah? Then why are you here? See, it seems to me that youre wasting valuable time that would be better spent trying to get back with that preppy boyfriend of yours if hell have you. 

 You know what? You remember when you told me to tell you when you were being a jerk? 

 Yeah. You could have saved yourself a lot of trouble by just calling first. 

 Oh. I guess it didnt seem like trouble at the time. 



Commercial Break



 Hells Kitchen. Audrey is still on stage performing before a huge crowd.  is in the audience cheering Audrey on, Joey enters the bar looking around for .



Girls just want to have fun playing 

 Singing I come home in the morning light my mother says what, you gonna live your life right? Oh, mother dear, were not the fortunate ones and girls, they want to have-- oh, girls just want to have fun the phone rings in the middle of the night my father says what you gonna do with your life? Oh, daddy dear, you know youre still number one but girls, they want to have-- oh, girls just want to have-- thats all they really want some fun when the working day is done oh, girls, they want to have-- oh, girls just want to have fun 

Joey finally finds  and goes over to join her

 Hey.

 Hey! I was beginning to think you didnt work here anymore. 

 Is that—

 Oh, Audrey. Yeah. She joined Emmas band. 

 Singing Just wanna they just wanna just wanna they just wanna just wanna they just wanna just wanna girls just want to have fun oh girls just want to have fun 

Crowd Whoo! 

 Yay, Audrey! 

Crowd Whoo hoo! 



 Hells Kitchen. Back room. The group has just finished playing and Audrey and Emma come into the back room, and plop down in chairs as Audrey grabs some water and throws a bottle to Emma



 Oh, my god, that was amazing! 

 Yeah, well, it didnt suck! 

 Oh, come on! It worked! They loved us! Admit it. They loved us. 

 All right. Yeah. They loved us. 

Joey and  come into the back room

 Joey, honey, you made it! 

 Yes. I didnt see the whole thing, but you were great! 

 You were more than great. You were amazing. 

 See? Do you see that? We were amazing. Wheres ? 

No one answer, and she is upset by this



 The movie set. Dawson is standing next to the chair that  is sitting in waiting as Todd comes walking up with  with him



Todd , theres someone Id like you to meet. , this is  Tracy from the studio. 

 Hi. Oh, my god! It is so great—She gives  a phony Hollywood kiss on the cheek Mwah! To finally meet you! You have amazing skin. 

 Uh...thanks. 

 Such a total pro. We are so happy to have you on our team. Great job in the  tonight, by the way. 

 Thanks. I decided not to think tonight. 

Todd , shall we? 

 Goody. I can hardly wait. 

Todd See you kids later. 

Todd and  walk off together.

 She hates me, right? 

 I wouldnt say that. 

 Its generally not a good sign when the director leaves the set at lunch with someone whos just arrived from L.A. Whatd you guys do, go shoe shopping? Start auditioning my replacement? 

 Uh...the first one. 

 Youre not a good liar, Dawson. In fact, youre a spectacularly bad liar. Come on. You can be honest with me. I know I got this job on a fluke. 

 You got this job because youre the best person for the part, because youre tremendously talented. 

 Yeah, right. Or maybe just tremendously lucky. 

 I think everyone feels that way about success— Everyone with a soul.

 And youve still got one, right? 

 Sighs I think so. 

 I think that may be why we ended up together, you and me. When we met at that party... 

 Mm-hmm. 

 I was pretty down on myself. I thought maybe I was an idiot for trying to do this thing and that I should just give up and, I dont know, be a kindergarten teacher like my moms always telling me. 

 Your mom wanted you to be a kindergarten teacher? 

 Laughs Yeah. 

 Ha ha! 

 Theres a lot she doesnt know about my teen years. 

 Heh! 

 Anyway... I remember thinking, if one more working actor sits down next to me and starts complaining about his life, I will scream. I will literally get up out of this chair and run screaming to California Pizza Kitchen, quit my job, and move home. And then you came over. Whyd you do that, anyway? 

 Honestly? 

 Mm-hmm. 

 You were the only hot girl in the room who looked like she might have actually read a book at some point in her life. 

 And you knew right then that I was right for this part. 

 After I talked to you for a little while, yeah. 

 So you werent just chatting me up? 

 Oh, I was chatting you up. 

 You were? 

 Oh, yeah. But I figured telling you about some big audition couldnt exactly hurt. 

 Yeah. Then I nailed it. I still cant believe it. God, that was a great day. It felt like my luck was finally changing. 

 It has. 

 Yes, it has. Well, I should go get changed. 

 All right. 

 But maybe tonight at the bar, we could, I dont know, play some air hockey or throw some darts. 

 Id like that. 

 Me, too. 

She goes into her trailer, and Dawson just smiles and walks off



 Outside Emmas Apartment. Emma and Audrey come walking up to the apartment after their gig at Hells Kitchen.



 It kind of rocks that the bars right across the street. 

 It simplifies things a bit, actually. 

 You know, I really should thank you. 

 What for? 

 For taking a chance on me and all that crap. 

 Cant really mess up punk-rock all that bad, now, can you? 

 I know, but still it was important to you, and you trusted me, and... 

 Lets not hug or anything. Your pig of a boyfriends likely to enjoy that. 

 He would, actually. 

They go inside to find  sitting on the couch passed out, sitting straight up

 Oh, dear. Poor sot. He stayed up all last night, you know, and he was gonna crash. Oh, well. See you tomorrow. Good night. 

 Good night. 

Emma goes upstairs and Audrey goes up behind  and begins shaking him awake.

 Uhh! 

 Hey. 

 Oh, crap. I missed it, didnt I? 

 Yeah. 

 Audrey, I was coming in to change my clothes, and I meant to just—

 You didnt get very far with that, did you? 

 Ok. Tell me how I can make this up to you. Please. Whatever you want. I am completely, totally, utterly yours, at your service. 

 I know its kind of late and everything, but do you think you could just drive me home? 

 Yeah, sure. Of course. 

 I just kind of want to sleep in my own bed tonight. 

 Absolutely. Not a problem. 

 Ok. Im gonna go get my stuff. 

 Yawns Ok. Ill be-- Ill just wait here. Sighs 



 Hells Kitchen. It is after closing, and Joey is cleaning up, when Eddie comes walking into the bar.



 What are you doing here? 

 I knew you were closing, thought you could use a little help. 

 In what way could you possibly help? 

 All right. That was fair. 

 Not to mention how condescending it is, you know, the assumption that I actually need help. 

 Ok, I get it. Are you done yet? 

 Only for the time being. 

 It was an accident, ok? The first time I did it. 

 How do you accidentally sit in on a class and pretend to be a student? 

 Well, Im on my lunch hour, Im sitting under some tree, and this grad student comes over with his whole section of "great books" one-oh-whatever- the-hell-it-is, and they start talking about Shakespeare.

 And you just happened to be reading it that day? 

 No. I was reading Moby Dick. Later, I read Shakespeare. 

 All of it? 

 No sense in doing things halfway, right? 

 I see, and since it was so easy, you just kept doing it. 

 It prevents me from deliberately stepping into the street and methodically knocking peoples hats off. 

 Moby Dick, right? 

 Hey, maybe youre not as dumb as  thinks you are. 

 Well see. Look. Contrary to what you might believe, I only came by your place tonight to apologize. I felt like it was kind of my fault that you got caught today. 

 Hows that? 

  wouldnt have singled you out if you werent trying to be so nice to me. 

 Nice? You thought I was trying to be nice to you? 

 Yeah. It seemed kind of obvious. 

 Wrong. 

 Wrong? 

 Yes. That wasnt me being nice. That was me showing off. You know, you disappoint me, Potter. 

 I do? 

 Yes. 

 How are we supposed to learn anything today, people? 

 You didnt do your groundwork, did you? 

 No, I didnt. 

 No, you didnt. 



 A coffee Stand on Campus. Jack has just ordered a cup of coffee and Professor Freeman comes walking up from behind him and throws Jacks Paper on the counter. The grade has been changed from a C-minus to a B.



 Whats this? 

Freeman You left your paper in my office yesterday. 

 Is this supposed to make everything ok? 

Freeman Look, maybe I did let my emotions affect the way that I graded your paper. If I did, thats inexcusable. 

 I sense an excuse coming on here. 

Freeman You have no idea, do you, of how much the world has changed? 

 Look, if the worlds changed, its because people are willing to stand up and be honest about things, not hide behind things that are easier. 

Freeman When I was growing up, when I was--how did you put it-- a scared teenager, you didnt have gay kids coming out to their parents on MTV. 

 Yeah, and Jack Tripper was the only gay man in America, right? 

Freeman You think thats such a small thing, such a minute cultural difference? Maybe you really havent been paying attention in my class, jack. 

 Just do me a favor and have one of the T.A.s grade my papers from now on, please. 

Freeman No problem. 

Freeman leaves and  comes walking up to Jack

 Ooh, nice. Little private teacher conference. What was that all about? 

 Im just getting that thing with my paper straightened out. 

 Oh, yeah. Is it? 

 Straight? Yeah. Perfectly. 

They walk off together as the camera pulls away form them

 The Movie Set. They are shooting a shot that takes place in the bedroom, while Dawson and Todd are watching on from the Directors chair. , and some guy come into the bedroom, and sit on the bed and begin to kiss and make out.

Guy hey... you sure about this? 

 As sure as about anything in my entire life. 

Guy Groovy. 

They begin to get making out even more. s shirt is coming up and his hands are sliding all over her body. When a man dressed up as the killer comes into the room and raises an axe above his head, and a monitor from above comes crashing down onto the floor next to him

Andrew Cut! 

Todd Excuse me, Andrew. Must be my trick ear. Did you just yell cut? Yelling cut is one of the few bright spots in an otherwise bleak existence. And I will not allow some hack stuntman to deny me the pleasure. You do not break character until I yell cut. Do you understand me? Good. Andrew nods and walks off That was fun. Sometimes I forget how much I like yelling at people. 

 Youre a sick man, Todd Carr. 

Todd Great. Now Im not gonna make my day. This is what I get for shooting on a bloody haunted soundstage the day before bloody Halloween. 

 What do you mean haunted? 

Todd You dont know? 

 What? 

Todd About the bird who died here-- Melanie Ray? Youve heard of Melanie Ray? 

 No. 

Todd And you call yourself a film geek. Shame on you, leery. 

 comes over to them and stands behind Todd and begins giving Todd a massage. You can see the twinge of jealousy in Dawsons eyes.

Todd Youve heard of Melanie Ray, right, darling? 

 Of course. 

Todd Melanie ray was the Jamie Lee Curtis of her day. The original scream queen. She was shooting this b-movie here in Boston. What was it called again? 

 Uh, kiss the girls and make them die. 

Todd Thats right. They shot it right here back in the fifties. And young Melanie was having an affair with her director. Sighs Where was I? 

 Ahem. Uh, affair with the director. 

Todd Oh, right. Yeah. Anyway, it was all complicated by the fact that Melanie was married to her costar nick march. And when nick found out about the affair, he went frigging ballistic. They were doing this  where the 2 characters had to get into a fight. He strangled her... to death. 

 That sucks. 

Todd Thats why they say her spirit still haunts the soundstage to this day. If you believe in that sort of thing. 

Man Theyre ready for you, . 

 goes off and leaves them alone

Todd What? 

 Nothing. 

Todd What? 

 Is there something going on between the two of you? 

Todd Leery, my boy, I learned a long time ago not to screw around with my leading ladies. Thats what extras are for. But if I was gonna unlearn that particular lesson, the lovely  would be the one to do it with. Right, while I still have my hair, people, energy up. Camera. 

Man2 Marker. 

Todd And...action. 

They begins shooting the  over again, and Todd watches how jealous Dawson gets watching the guy making out with 



Opening Credits



Commercial Break



 The editing room. Dawson, Todd, and the editor are going through the dailies from their early shoot.



Man Tape Hey... you sure about this? 

 Tape As sure as Ive ever been about anything in my whole entire life. 

Todd turns to Dawson who is watching the shot

Todd Boy, eh, hows my party coming? 

 Im pleased to announce the art departments turned stage 7 into a playground for the morally impaired. 

Todd Oh, excellent. I love Halloween. My favorite holiday. Always has been. 

 Yeah. Mine, too. Actually Im kinda famous for playing these elaborate pranks on my friends back home. 

Todd Good for you, Gilligan. Hows my costume coming? 

 Picking it up from wardrobe right after this. 

Todd Am I gonna look like a stud? 

 Is there any doubt? 

Todd But will it get me laid, Dawson? That is the question. 

 Tell you what. If you cant close the deal, Ill have a few extras lined up for you. 

Todd See, thats what I like about you, leery. Always thinking ahead. 

Todd Tape Camera. Action. 

Todd Gentlemen,  looks so hot in these dailies, I think Im gonna have to ask you all to leave the room so I can be alone with myself. Do you know what I mean? Notice Dawson not laughing Whats your problem? 

 Nothing. 

Todd Youre a bit territorial about the lovely , arent you, Leery? 

 No. 

Todd Good. Because you shouldnt be. You dumped her, remember? For the prissy one. 

 Its not that simple, Todd. 

Todd Sure it was. Your puny little mind couldnt process the fact that you were shagging one of the hottest young starlets Hollywood has to offer, so you jacked it all in for another go at your prom date. 

 She wasnt my prom date. 

Todd chuckles 

 It was--it was junior prom. That doesnt count. Doesnt count. 

An image that doesnt belong in the daily flashes across the screen

Editor Hey, Todd, you should take a look at this. 

He backs the tape up and goes frame by frame to the image, and they see an image of a woman in a trench coat and dark glasses, next to a sign that reads Melanie Ray Costume #3

 What is that? 

Todd Is this a joke? 

Editor This is what we got back from the lab. 

Todd I dont believe this. Someones screwing with me. Is this one of those practical jokes you claim to be famous for? 

 What are you talking about? 

Todd Remember that little story I told you about yesterday? About the actress who died on stage 7? 

 Yeah. 

Todd Thats her. 

 What is she doing in our dailies? 

Todd I have no idea. 



 Audrey and Joeys Dorm Room. Audrey is standing in front of the mirror finishing her Nancy costume. While  is finishing getting dressed in the Bathroom. 



 Sid! Ooh, baby! You look awesome! But... 

 But what? 

 Well, dont shoot the messenger here, but if were going for authenticity, leather pants would really do the trick. 

 Frankly, its a miracle that Im even going along with this whole Sid and Nancy thing. 

 Hey, you promised not to be cranky tonight. 

 Sorry. Im just not really a costume party kind of guy. 

 Seem to love putting on that little monkey suit of yours every morning. 

 Easy. 

 All right. Sorry. Low blow. I have no desire to get into yet another tiff about our ever-widening ideological differences. Ill be ready in a second. 

 Ok. 

She goes into the bathroom, and  begins to walk around the room. He notices a paper on Audreys dresser with a Grade of F on it. He quickly puts it down when Audrey comes out of the bathroom.

 You ready? Whats wrong? 

 Nothing. Lets go. 

 Ok. 

 Yeah. 



 Emmas Apartment.  and Jack are in the living room, while Emma is off getting ready.  is pacing around the room, and Jack is sitting on the sofa.  is dressed like a dark angel, and Jack is dressed up as a vampire.



 Im telling you, just call the guy. 

 Im telling you, its too late. The miniscule window of opportunity that once was has officially closed. 

 Yeah, but you like the guy. I can tell. 

 Which guy is this? 

  Strapping young lad. 

 I see. 

 I think that maybe the thing to do here, jack, is to just crush from afar. That way there are no broken hearts, there are no dashed dreams, there are no morning-after pills to contend with. 

 The girls got a point. 

 No, she doesnt. Shes just afraid this guy is too good for her. Dial. He throws the phone to her And shes wrong about that. 

 Uh, no. Hes probably working right now, doing good for others and whatnot, which is annoying, but undeniably charming. 

 Dial. 

 What? I dont know his number. 

Call the help line. 

 No. Doesnt that seem wrong? 

 Just do it. Arrr! Fake bites the air

 dials the phone and calls the Help Line and  answers the phone.

 Help line. Happy Halloween. 

 Um, hi. Is  There? 

 Speaking. 

 Oh. Hi. Uh, this is . Lindley. Do you-- do you remember me? 

 Hello,  Lindley. What can I do for you? 

 Well, I was just wondering what you were doing tonight. Um, but youre working, arent you? 

 Uh, yeah, for just, like, another hour. Im filling in for somebody whos running late. 

 Oh, well--I mean, do you have plans after that or—

 well, if... going back to my room and watching Halloween h20 on cable qualifies as plans, then yeah. Im all booked up. 

 Oh...well, do you have any interest in coming to a party? 

 With you? Alone? 

 Well, no. I mean, Ill be there, but my friends are coming, too. 

Jack starts to try to get he to answer alone

 Hmm, I dont know about that. Wait a second, did you just call the help line to invite me to a party? 

 Yeah. Is that wrong? 

 Whats the address? 

Jack and  give each other high fives silently.



 Hells Kitchen. Eddie is working behind the bar, when Joey comes walking up and takes a seat at it in front of Eddie 



 Good news. 

 What? 

 You can come back to class. 

 What are you talking about? 

 I talked  into letting you come back. 

 You talked to  about me? 

 Yeah. 

 Uh-huh. 

 Which was clearly a mistake. My bad. 

 Whoever said I wanted to come back to class? 

 You seemed to go through a lot of trouble to attend so I just--I thought it mightve meant something to you, but again, sorry. 

Joey turns to walks away from the bar, and runs into a girl who is walking rather quickly through the bar. The girl is maybe 12 years old

Harley Uhh! Could you maybe watch where youre going? 

 How old are you? 

Harley Thatd be none of your business. Just tell me where can I find some girl with the unfortunate name of Joey. 

Professor  comes walking up to them.

 Oh, I see you two have already met. 

 This is your daughter? 

 Meet my daughter Harley. Harley, this is Joey potter. 

Harley Ugg, hi. 

Harley goes walking off to the Jukebox

 What? 

 I thought she was 5. 

 Whatever gave you that idea? 

 The picture on your desk. 

 Well, she was 5 when that picture was taken. 

 Thats false advertising. 

Harley returns to join them

 Aw, jeez, would you look at the time? Ill pick the little angel up at 1100. Have fun. And--well, thanks again, Joey. Bye, sweetie. 

Harley Dad! Im gonna give you one more chance here not to bail on me. 

Sighs Sweetie, Im not bailing on you. 

Harley No. Youre foregoing tradition, our tradition. To go out with some skank. 

 A--shes not a bad kind of skank, and b--well go to the movies tomorrow night. 

Harley Its not the same! We go to the movies on Halloween. We go see some scary old movie at the crest. Its what we do. 

 Harley, you gotta give me a break here. Ill make it up to you, I promise, ok? 

Professor  leaves them alone, and Joey looks at Harley knowing what she is going through.

Harley What are you looking at? 

Harley storms off back to the juke box



 The movie Set. Dawson is walking through the stage that has been set up for the party, and Dawson is dressed up like a Man In Black. He walks across the stage when he hears something.



Voice Dawson. 

He sees the blur of someone in a long black trench coast walk around a corner. He quickly goes after it but finds that there is no one there. He looks around, then walks off dismissing that he saw anything at all.



Commercial Break



 The film set. IT is later at night, and the party has kicked off full swing. The band is playing, and there are tons of people dancing and partying in the stage set up for a Halloween bash. Todd is dressed up like a priest and is standing with two twins and he is heavily hitting on them when Dawson comes over to him. 



 Todd! Can I talk to you for a second? 

Todd Im busy. 

 Todd, Im serious. I really need to talk to you. 

Todd Would you 2 beautiful ladies excuse me, please? Just for a minute. 

The two ladies walks off.

Todd All right, you better be dying. 

 I saw her. 

Todd Who? 

 Her. Melanie Ray. 

Todd Youre screwing with me.

 Im not. I saw her. 

Todd Where? 

 In here, on stage. 

Todd Well, you like. You probably saw someone dressed up like her. Its a frigging costume party, leery. 

 This was hours ago, before anybody even got there. 

Todd Come on, mate. Your minds playing tricks on you. Take the night off. Have a little fun. Knock back some bye-bye-pain juice. Saddle up with a couple of birds.  comes walking towards them dressed up like a naughty school girl God save the queen. 

 joins them and stands next to Todd and takes his arm in hers.

 Hello, boys. 

 Hi. 

Todd You wanna dance, darling? 

 Love to. Yeah. 



 Hells Kitchen. Eddie is cleaning up a table as a smitten Harley is hanging around him.



Harley Do you have a girlfriend, Eddie? 

 I most certainly do not. 

Harley Oh, well, how come? 

 Well, Ive found that girlfriends are generally more trouble than theyre worth. 

Harley Well, that seems like a total waste, if you ask me. 

 How old are you? 

Harley Ive found that age is but a number, Eddie. 

Joey comes over to join them

 All right, you two, break it up. You ready to have some fun, Harley? 

Harley And where is this fun you speak of? 

 Well, I was going to take you trick or treating, but that was when I thought you were 5. So I was thinking we could go to the movies or something. I heard you say something to your dad about wanting to see—

Harley That sounds lame. I want to stay here. 

 Well, Im supposed to be taking care of you, and I dont think your dad would want you hanging out in some college bar all night. 

Harley Trust me. He wouldnt care. 

 Ok, look, youre talking to somebody who could host a daytime talk show on deadbeat dads, so lets not go there. Come on, lets have some fun. 

Harley No , youre not gonna make me go anywhere I dont wanna go. Im gonna stay right here until my father gets back.

 Hey, you know, I read about this haunted house in the paper today. Its supposed to be pretty scary. 

Harley I love haunted houses. 

 Yeah, maybe you guys could do something like that. 

Harley Well, Ill go if you go. 

 Eddies working. 

 Off in 5, actually. 

 Well, Im sure he has plans. 

 Not particularly, no. 

 Well, then, by all means, please join us. 

Harley Cool. 

 Cool. 

Harley goes walking of

 You didnt have to do that. I was handling it. 

 Yeah. You were doing just swell. It sucks when people butt into your business, dont it? 



 The Film Set Party. Jack and  are standing together waiting for C.J to arrive. Jack is looking off into the distance when  is looking behind him.



 , did you tell  It was a costume party? 

 Yeah. Yeah, I think so. God, I hope so. Why? 

 Ahem. Check it out. 

CJ and a friends come walking up neither of them in costume.

 You could have told me it was a costume party. 

 Oh, my god. Im so sorry. 

 I feel like such a dork. 

 And you are? 

 Sorry. This is David. 

 Hi, Im . 

 Hi. 

 This is jack. 

 Hey, David. 

 Hey. 

 So, were gonna go grab some refreshments. You guys need anything?

 Cool. 

 Fine. 

CJ and David walk off.

 Oh, my god! I am like flypaper for the homosexual community. 

 Yeah. What? 

 Hes obviously gay. I shouldve known. 

 Who--? 

 It figures. I invite a boy to a party, and he brings his boyfriend. 

 What makes you so sure theyre a couple? 

 Whatever. Even if hes straight, I cant take this  Anymore. Hes way too standoffish. When I make my intentions clear, I want them to be acknowledged and reciprocated. In that order. 

 I hear ya. I hear ya. All right. Were gonna delve a little deeper into this, ok? Im gonna take , And youre gonna take the "alleged" homosexual, and were gonna meet back here in a little bit. 

 Deal. 

 Break! 

 Break. 



 The Haunted House. Joey, Eddie and Harley are walking through a pretty lame haunted house. They walk through a room, when a man dressed up as a mummy comes and puts his hand on Joeys Shoulder



 Aah! 

Harley Oh, my god. Youre so retarded. 

 Who asked you, you little twerp? 

Harley goes walking off away from Eddie and Joey

 Hey, go easy on the poor kid. Ok? Shes got problems. 

 And what do you know about that? 

 Come on, its obvious the girl has some issues with her father. 

 Dont we all? Hey, uh, look, Im sorry about butting into your life and all that. I saw an opportunity to help, and I went for it. Its just that youre really smart. Youre a lot smarter than anybody else in that class. And it just makes me sad to see all of that potential just going to waste. 

 What potential? What--what waste? Look, I like to read books. Big deal. What, my life would be so much better if I went to college? And, uh... 

 what? 

 I dont need your pity. And I dont need to be some rich kids charity case. 

 You think Im a rich kid? Wow. 

 What? 

 Its just funny... how little you actually know about me. 

 You know whats even funnier? All of this couldve been so easily avoided. I mean, I wasnt even gonna come back to s class. I mean, hes too cynical, hes too impressed with himself. 

 So, why did you come back? 

 You. You, uh, you got under my skin. I found myself having these series of annoying conversations with you in my head, which must be a sign of something, so I kept coming back for more, which ultimately proved to be my undoing. 

Someone walks up behind Joey in costume and puts their hand on her shoulder, and she jumps into Eddies arms and he hugs her to his chest to protect her.

 Aah! 

 Man, youre such a scaredy cat. 

 Thats what they tell me. Could you let me go now? 

 You know what? I dont think so. 

He bends down and kisses her, and they kiss for a moment, before Joey stops.

 Oh, crap. 

 What? 

 Harley. 



 The film set party.  and Audrey come walking into the party. And Audrey is looking to have fun, and  seems a little out of place.



 Wow! Ive died and gone to hell! Hail, Satan! 

 All of a sudden, I feel very old. 

 Oh, , come dance with me. Dance? 

 Where? 

 Over there. 

 Thats not dancing. Thats cavorting. 

 Oh, when did you become such a dull normal? 

 About the same time you started failing tests. 

 Whats that supposed to mean? 

 What? Come on, whats with the "f," Audrey? 

 Its a letter grade, . Its typically given when a student fails to meet the requirements of an assignment. 

 Thanks, wise ass. Im just asking if everythings ok. 

 I got it totally under control, baby. 

 Yeah, cause you know in my experience, theres never just one "F." Those things tend to come in bunches. 

 You know what? I have a really good idea. Lets not talk about this. 

 Ok, fine. Im just letting you know Im worried. Thats all. 

 You know what? It really doesnt seem like you are. It seems like youre too busy running around like Glengarry Glen loser to be worried about much of anything these days. 

 Thats nice of you. Take a swing at me. Because I gotta work for a living. Thats great. 

 I dont mind that you have to work for a living, . Im just saying dont lose yourself in it. Thats all. 

 Why are we bickering about this? I just wanna know whats going on with you. 

 Ok. You wanna know whats going on with me? Here goes. I havent really been going to class much this semester, . Why is that? You might ask. Because Ive been kinda depressed. Yeah, you see, I have this boyfriend, and I thought everything was going great, but apparently its not. Apparently, he cares about his job more than he cares about me, and I know he would probably say that wasnt true and that Im just being some hysterical drama queen, but I suppose if it wasnt true, hed pretty much know everything that was going on in my life, wouldnt he, ? 

Emma comes walking up to them

 Hey, guys. Love the costumes. 



 The film set party. Dawson is talking with a lady at the party. She is majorly hitting on him and he is oblivious to the fact.



 No, Im not the director. Im the directors assistant. 

Lady Really? Thats awesome! 

 Yeah. 

Dawson looks up to the catwalk along the top of the sets, and he sees the woman dressed in the black trench coat and stares at her as she stares down at him. He can not see much of her face cause it is hidden behind a large pair of dark glasses

Lady Are you ok? 

 Can you excuse me for a sec? 

He runs over to the stairs that lead up to the catwalks. And quickly runs up them trying to catch up with the woman he saw. He is always several steps behind her. Every time he gets to the point he last saw her she is else where. Eventually he loses her all together, and he looks down onto the party and sees  and Todd talking.  takes Todds hand and leads him off to the bedroom set. They sit down on the bed together and start kissing, and Dawson sees this and we can see the jealous eyes light up again. We  the toe door of the bedroom set. Dawson comes quickly up to it, and grabs the door handle, but stops, then he thinks second about it and opens the door. He goes into the room to see Todd and  sitting on the bed talking while there are about half a dozen other people partying in the room with them.



Todd Right. Laughs 

 I was thinking about near the end. Well, so... They turn to see Dawson Whats wrong, Dawson? 

 Nothing. Uh, I was just, uh, looking for somebody. 

HE goes to walk out of the room, stops for a second to wonder if what he saw actually happened, then he leaves the room. As he walks away his cell phone rings.

Cell phone rings 

 Hello. 



 The editing room. Dawson comes into the room and the editor is queuing up another shot, and stops it at a point



Editor I was getting ready to leave for the party when a new batch of dailies came in. I go to digitize them, and this is what showed up. 

He starts the shot back up and we see the ghost woman on screen. This time it is the  that Todd was talking about earlier, where wee see the woman actually get strangled to death. And we see the people working that set run out and grab the actor and pull him away from her and then that is all.



Commercial Break



 The film set. Dawson is on the outskirts of the party when he sees  walking towards him.



 Hey. 

 Hey. You--you look amazing. Im sure youve probably heard that, like, 1,000 times. 

 Yeah, Ive gotten a couple marriage proposals and one guy said hed sign over his car if I slept with him, but... thanks, it never gets old. 

 Can I ask you something? 

 If you must. 

 This Melanie Ray-- why did she start having an affair with the director? 

 Who knows? Maybe she fell in love with him or maybe she just wanted someone to pay attention to her. 

 But she had someone to pay attention to her. She was married. 

 Yeah, well, not all relationships are perfect, Dawson. They dont all last forever. Maybe he had a shot. Maybe he blew it. 

 Maybe she just didnt give him enough of a chance. 

 If youre asking if theres something going on between me and Todd, the answer is "none of your business." 

 Thats not what Im asking. 

 Oh, please. You are not so good with the subtext, baby. And you have no right to be jealous.

 Jealous? IM... who said I was jealous? 

 Uh-huh. You just keep telling yourself that, sweetie. 



 Outside the Haunted House. Joey is walking down the street looking for Harley when Eddie comes running up to her.



 Hey, wait up. Wait up. 

 Look, I dont think you fully comprehend the dire here, ok? I lost an entire human being. A totally annoying human being, yes, but I was responsible for her. You know, everything was going just fine until you had to go and kiss me. 

 Oh, so now its my fault. 

 Yes, it is your fault. Ill accept your apology and we can move on. 

 Hey, if you want to get technical about it, you kissed me first, which would make it your fault. 

 Shut up and make yourself useful. Now, if you were a bratty teenage girl, where would you disappear off to? 

 Oh, listen, if I was a teenage girl, bratty or otherwise, I would never leave the house. Id be too busy checking myself out. 

 Classy. And Ill thank you for that image. 

 And you know, if you really want to get technical, its s fault. Hes the one who bailed on her. He was the one who was supposed to take her to the movies. 

 Eddie Dolan, you are a genius! She hugs him Come on! 



 The film set party. Audrey walks through an empty Grave yard set, and notices a coffin that is stood up and has a padded back. She plops back into the leaning coffin and relaxes in it. She notices  walking onto the set, and quietly closes the coffin lid and  does not even notice. He simple walks up next to it and takes a seat on a tombstone near it. Emma comes walking by the set and sees  sitting all alone there.



 Hello. 

 Hi. 

 Is everything ok? 

 Oh, yeah, yeah. If your definition of "ok" is having the strong desire to draw a warm bath and slit your wrists, then I am peachy. 

 Ahh. You and the old lady having some troubles? 

 You might say that. 

 Uh-oh. Do you need to have a bit of a chat? 

 Thats not really our thing, now is it? 

 No, but we are flatmates, and I suppose that entitles you to something. 

 Ok. I used to think that Audrey and I were the perfect fit. And we were, cause for the first time in any of my relationships, we were on equal footing. There was no mind games, no high drama, no angst. It was just fun. 

 Sounds good... in theory. Its a bit difficult to sustain that sort of thing. 

 Thats what Im finding out. 

 Yeah. 

 And its making me second-guess myself. Cause Im not really sure if the reason Im checking out is because I just cant handle the rough spots or if its... because I just dont love her anymore. Hmm. Or really, for that matter, if I ever truly loved her. 

 Inhales Yeah. Im afraid only you can answer that one. 

 And to be perfectly honest, I dont really want to find out tonight. So what do you say you and I go and rejoin the party, huh? 

 Ok. 

 Thanks for listening, though. 

 Its ok. But, you know, just cause we had one proper conversation, dont think you can cry on my shoulder any time you like. 

They walk off, and after a few seconds Audrey opens the coffin lid and has a depressed look on her face after hearing it all



 the film set party. Elsewhere at the party.  and David are sitting in some made up chairs talking together and drinking some punch



 So... 

 Yes? 

 How long have you been together? 

 Uh, what do you mean "together"? 

 Or, I mean, how--like, how long have you known each other? 

 Oh. Uh, about a year. We met at the stand. 

 Ohhh. So youre one of those. 

 Yup. Just another screwed-up gay kid trying to remake the world in his image. You should come by sometime. 

 No. No thanks.  Already gave me the hard sell. 

 So youre the  hes always talking about. 

 He talks about me? 

 All the time. He wants you so bad. 

 Really? 

 Yeah. He thinks youd make a great counselor. 

 Oh! For a second-- for a second I thought that-- that you meant that he "wanted" me. But of course not. Hes--hes gay. Why would he want me that way? 

 Who--? 

 Yeah. 

 S not gay. 

 Hes not? 

 No. Not at all. 



 the party. In another area, Jack and CJ are talking together, while drinking their punch.



 Sorry. 

 Im not offended, Im just not gay. Davids gay. Me, not so much. 

 Well, I know somebody who will be very glad to hear that. 

 Who? A little dense. 

 Uh, . Cute little blonde traveling companion, called the help line to invite you to this shindig. 

 Oh, thats nice to hear. 

 And youre not very interested, are you? 

 Truth is, Im not. I mean, I think shes really cool and everything, I think shed be a real benefit to the stand, its just...thats not what Im looking for right now. 

 But if you were looking for that right now...? 

 Shes not my type. 



 The movie theater. Eddie is directing a guy in a costume, how to get to the Haunted House, when Joey comes walking out of the Theater with Harley.



 Haunted house is down one block, make a right and just keep following your nose. Know what Im saying? Its great. 

Harley Child abuse. Child abuse. Not so rough! Hi, Eddie. 

 You gave us quite a scare tonight, young lady. 

 Oh, dont be cute with her. She doesnt deserve cute. 

Harley Dont worry, Joey. The nights almost over. Youll be rid of me soon enough. Then you can go back to your miserable little existence. 

 Would you mind giving us a second? 

 Yeah. 

Eddie walks away from them

 Um...Clears throat Listen, I know that youre pissed at your dad for flaking on you, but it doesnt mean hes a bad dad and it doesnt mean that he doesnt love you. 

Harley No, it just means hes a dick. 

 Harley—

Harley Do you even like him? Sometimes I dont see how anyone could ever like him. Hes very abrasive. 

 True, but hes also very... 

Harley Every time Im supposed to come see him I trick myself into thinking that its gonna be different this time. But it never is. Its always just different shades of the same. 

Joey understands as Harley walks off to join Eddie



 The film set party. Dawson is walking around the party, when out of the corner of his eye, he sees the ghost woman again. He tries to catch up with her, but he is cut off by a group of partiers cutting across his path. He tries to follow her, and notices her go into the Bedroom set. He slowly walks up to the door and opens it up to see Todd and  lying together fully clothed on the bed.



Todd Leery! Uh...this isnt what it looks like? 

 Really. You guys arent screwing behind my back? 

Todd No, we are. But look at her, do you know what I mean? Shes very persuasive. 

 Shut up. 

Todd You cant tell me to shut up. 

 What are you gonna do, fire me? You tried that before. It doesnt take. Listen, , Im-- Im really sorry that I hurt you. I mean, that was the last thing that I wanted to have happen, believe me. I got involved in the middle of an incredibly complicated situation, and I made a choice without thinking and it was the wrong choice, which is what I dont think Ive really been able to... communicate to you, which is I--I like you. I keep on saying that Im not jealous, but I--I am. Im very jealous. This is-- the thought of some other guy touching you, especially him-- I mean, hes... Todd. 

Todd Leery, Im not adverse to giving this whole firing thing another go, you know. 

 Too late. I quit. I... good luck with the rest of the movie. Im outta here. 

He storms off, leaving them all alone.



Commercial Break



 The film set party. Dawson is getting ready leave the party, when he stops and turns around. While looking around he looks up and sees the ghost lady on the catwalk again. He quickly runs up after her as she walks away from him. He makes it up to the cat walk, but this time the ghost lady walks towards him. As she walks towards him she pulls off her wig and glasses and we see that it is . Then from behind her comes Todd filming Dawson with a hand camera. 



Todd Laughs Leery, this is bloody gold, mate! 

 What the—

 Happy Halloween, Dawson. Weve had the immense pleasure of screwing with your mind this evening. 

 Exhales Wait. So you two arent even—

 No way. Too old, too many extras. 

Todd Yeah, Im not too into my assistants sloppy seconds, either. 

 Watch it. 

 What about the footage? 

Todd The magic of movie-making, mate. 

 Wasnt that a lot to go through just to get a laugh at my expense? 

Todd No. Worth every second. Right. Im gonna go get Danny boy to edit this together. 

 Ooh, I wanna see.

Todd Come on, then. Um... you werent serious about the whole quitting thing, right? Cause I sort of need some help with my shot lists tonight. You up for it? Youre a scholar.

Dawson just laughs to himself as they go off.



 The film set party.  and CJ are standing outside talking to each other, after a moment to finally get alone.



 We didnt really get much of a chance to talk tonight. 

 Well, you could always call the help line again. 

 You know, I was actually thinking about reconsidering the stand. I feel like maybe I was just too judgmental the first time around. 

 Well, wed love to have you. Just, you know, make sure youre doing it for the right reasons. 

 Are there any other reasons? 

 I dont know. 

 You know, you could save me a lot of trouble by just going out with me. 

 Jack and David standing a ways away from them, just watching them

 This is making me sad. 

 Why? 

 Well, hes not into her, and Im the one who told her to call him. 

 Trust me, shes better off. 

 What do you mean? 

 Uh...its a long story. 

 Want to tell me about it sometime over coffee? 

 Coffee? 

 Hot caffeinated beverage. Its all the rage these days. Seems to be an excuse for people to get together and find out if they like one another. 

 Yeah, I think Id be up for something like that. 

 Cool. 

 and CJ come walking up to Jack and David

 You ready? 

 Yeah. Well, it was nice meeting you. 

 Likewise. 

C.J Jack. 

  

 And I guess Ill talk to you soon. 

 Dave, definitely. 

 Ok. 

 Bye. 

 Bye. 

CJ and David leave

 Howd that go? 

 Well, hes playing a little hard to get, which is somewhat disconcerting, but no worries. Hell be mine. 

 Sighs Come on. Lets get out of here. 



 Hells Kitchen. Joey and Harley are playing a game of pool, when Professor  finally comes in



 Hi, sweetheart. 

Harley Hey, dad. How was the date? 

 Went great. Right up to the moment when she said I had a toxic personality. Is that bad? Howd everything go here? 

Harley Great. She was a perfect angel. 

 Cool. You ready? 

Harley Gimme a second, dad. 

Profess  walks away from them

Harley Sorry I was such an uber-bitch. 

 We all have our moments. You know what? Dont stop hoping that things will be different with him. Youre way too young to be so bitter. 

Harley Can I give you some advice? 

 Sure. 

Harley Eddie totally likes you. I hope a guy like him looks at me that way someday. Dont mess it up. 

 Ok. 

Harley and  leave. Eddie comes walking up to Joey a few seconds later

 Clears throat One root beer float. Where is she? 

 Gone.  just picked her up. 

 Wanna split this? Shame to see it go to waste, like my potential. 

 Shut up. 

They take a seat at one of the counters, and begin sharing the float, with 2 long spoons

 Can I ask you a question? 

 If you must. 

 Whats going on with us? 

 What do you mean? 

 I mean...I kiss you, you kiss me. In some states that could be construed as dating. 

 Were not dating. 

 Oh, god, no. 

 And Im not going back to s class. 

 Thats fine. 

 Is it? 

 Absolutely. You are who you are, Eddie. I have no desire to change that. 

 You know what, Joey? I dont know whats going on with us... but I kind of like it that way. 

 Me, too. 



 Outside the File Set.  comes out, happy to finally find Audrey who is sitting on the hood of his car.



 Hey. There you are. Ive been looking everywhere for you. Is everything ok? 

 I think we should break up, . 

 Chuckles What? He sees she is serious Lets just go home and sleep on it. We can talk about it in the morning. 

 No. This is what I want. 

 This is not the way I wanted for this to happen. 

 Shut up, ! Just shut up, ok? You are getting off easy here and you know it. Im not gonna let you put up some false protest so that you can feel better about yourself. I am ending it now. There is a long pause where neither of them say anything Thats how I know that its over. You didnt say a word, , not a word. Cause you dont have the energy to fight it and... I deserve better than that. 

 Youre right. You do. You deserve way better than that. 

 Go ahead, . Why dont you follow the script? You know, say all of the things that youre supposed to say to me. You got anything else? How many empty words is it gonna take for you to be able to sleep easy tonight? 

 What do you want from me, Audrey? You know thats not how it is, but the negativity gets to me, too, ok? So I agree with you. 

 Dont you dare try to make yourself feel noble, . You are not some knight in shining armor. Youre just a guy whos grown tired of screwing the same girl and you feel guilty about it. You think that sucks? Why dont you-- why dont you try being the one who has to wonder why all the people that she loves dont love her back. 

 Oh, Audrey, come on. 

She slaps him

 Ohh. 

 Sobbing 



 The film set. The party is now over, and Dawson is sitting in the bedroom set thinking about this entire day. He gets up and goes to leave the room, and finds  on the other side of the door when he opens it.



 Still mad at me? 

 I was never mad at you. I was—

 Insanely jealous? 

 Sighs I dont think I realized how much I actually wanted to be with you until I thought you were sleeping with Todd. 

 Say it again. 

 What, that I was jealous? 

 No. That you like me. 

 I like you, . I really like you. 

 Good, because... I like you, too. I lot of people walk in and out of my life, Dawson, and... you might not believe what Im about to say, because Im an actor and I lie for a living, but... youre one of the only people I ever really wanted to stick around. 

 I dont know what to believe... but I love my life. I... wake up most mornings pinching myself that I get to take even a small part in all of this. But... I cant help but feel like its all an illusion. You know? I mean, its like its all just one moment away from disappearing forever. 

 Thats because it is. For all I know, this could be my last job. So Im going to enjoy the experience while it lasts, hug everybody now, because they might not be here tomorrow, and take the experience with me. And if meeting you is all I get out of this one, well, it might just be enough for me. 

 God, I missed you. 

 I always wanted you back, you know. You just had to pay for your sins. 

 Are we even now? 

 Just about. 

She pushes him down on the bed and begins kissing him

 Wait, are you... sure about this? 

 As sure as Ive ever been about anything in my entire life. 

 Groovy. 

They begin making out, when a man dressed in the killers outfit comes in and raises an axe above his head and swings it down at them, and  black

 Hells Kitchen. Eddie is sitting at the bar reading a book, when Joey comes walking up carrying her bag and grabbing her coat. She begins tallying up her receipts for the day.. It is in the middle of the day and the bar is not very busy.

 Hey. You outta here? 

 Yeah. I got some stuff to do on campus. 

 300? Yeah, I know when s class is, Joe. 

 I know. I just didnt want you to feel weird or something. You know, its no fun without you. No one to contest my opinions with snarky feedback. Im starting to feel smart or something. 

 Yeah, well, finals should nip that pesky ego in the butt. 

 I cant believe this semester is almost over. 

 I know. 

 Are you going home for the holidays? 

 What could be homier than this clean, well-lighted place? 

 Seriously. Where are you from? 

 Does it make a difference? Where are you from? 

 Capeside. 

 Chuckles 

 What? 

 Nothing. Its just... Capeside. I guess thats about right. 

 About right for what? 

 Hey, relax. Nothing to be ashamed of. 

 Have you ever even been to Capeside? 

 They dont let my kind go that far east. 

 Well, thank goodness we have neutral ground to spar on. 

 Yeah. Yeah. Were a regular Sam and Diane—me with my rugged charms, you with your fancy book learning. 

 You know, youve got it all wrong about me, Eddie Doling. Im a girl from the wrong side of the tracks. You dont wanna mess with the likes of me. 

 I dont know. I kinda like it when you get all "foxfire" on me. Nothin like a fancy girl slummin it. 

 You know what? Youre very lucky I have class right now, because tonight, we rumble. 

 I will be here. Im workin a double today, and dont you have anything better to do on your night off than loll around your place of work? 

 You know, it just so happens that Hells Belles is going to thoroughly rock the house down. 

 Mmm. 

 Kinda like the onion rings. 

 Ill see you later, joey. 

She leaves for class



Open Credits



Commercial Break



 Professor Freemans Class.  and Jack are just arriving to class and are making their way to get their normal seats.



 So what is going on with you and this David fellow? 

 Keep to your own furtive gropings, thank you very much. 

 Oh, Jack. 

 No, it wasnt like that. I mean, there was-- there was coffee, there was talking, and I dont wanna jinx it. 

 Aw, why so shy? Come on, somebodys gotta be getting some. God. Cracking this  Case is proving far too difficult for the delicate likes of me. 

 Easy, easy. Your sexual frustrations hitting a vein. Anyway, were meeting in the cafeteria after class. 

 Can I come?  Will probably be there. 

 , dont you think youve given this one the old college try? This much efforts beneath you. You said so yourself, didnt you? 

 Oh, you cant hold the ultimatums of party  against me. I was wearing a wig. I was feeling crazy. 

 All right. Hey, I tell you what. Bring grams, too. 

 Maybe I will. 

Professor Freeman comes into class, and makes an announcement

Freeman Afternoon, everyone. I wanted to start class today by telling you all that you wont be seeing me after finals. The publication of my critical essays has secured my academic visitation in Chicago. So Ill be leaving Boston Bay at the end of the semester. Since our time is limited, I wanted to invite all of you to the book-signing tonight over at Winthrop hall. Youve been a great class, one of my favorites. 

 Did you know about this? 

 No. I had no idea. 





 Joey and Audreys dorm room. Audrey has laid out most of her clothes on her bed, and is trying to put together an outfit.



 Aah. Sighs

Joey comes in after class

 Ok, ok. You decided to bless the orphans of the world your Betsy Johnsons? 

 Hardly. I am auditioning outfits, and everything is failing miserably. Where have all my sex clothes gone?  Witter has pillaged my fashion sense. 

 You mean there are clothes out there that actually show off your chest even more? 

 Yes. And quite frankly, the girls are feeling shunned. The band is playing tonight at your little dive bar, and I want them to be resplendent. 

 I know. I wouldnt miss it for the world. In fact, Im not even working tonight. So you will have my full and undivided attention. 

 Ooh, well, might be nice if you showed your face around these parts. I know Im usually low maintenance and all. 

 I wouldnt go that far. Besides, I figure that you and  would appreciate the private time. 

 Yeah, well. That was a great help. Now Ive dumped  4 months too late and not a slutty frock has survived. Not a one, I tell you. 

 What? When did you dump ? 

 Hello? Mid-mid-life crisis, thanks for watching. Jeez, Joey, would it kill you to keep up? 

 Look, Audrey, Im sorry. Ive been-- wait, when did this happen? 

 The horror that was Halloween. Whatever. I dont want to talk about it. 

 Audrey, how could you not tell me about this? Look, I know Ive been gone a lot, but a little bathroom sidebar might have been in order. 

 I dont know. I guess I just figured that youd hear it from  in some "how has life been since you?" Conversation. 

 Of course not. We live together. I mean, just because Ive been running around doesnt mean I dont have time for you. 

 Yeah, well, listen, it would have been great to hear your ex-girlfriend wisdom at the time, but now, Im kinda done reliving it. Ok. 



 The cafeteria.  and Jack go walking over to join a table with David who is waiting for them.



 Jack, have you ever noticed how much your apartment looks like the one on my two dads? I think its the spiral staircase. 

 Well, I dont know if you and  are embroiled in some whose sperm is whose battle, but would you maybe want to go out tonight, jack? 

 I cannot believe that you just did that. 

 What? 

 No hedging, no subtext. No horrible puns. Gays have it so easy. Straight boys are never so... straight. 

 Love to. 

 Cool. 

 Oh, you know what? Emma and Audrey are playing tonight. 

 Yeah, thats right. Thats right. We should go to that. Is that ok? And then afterwards, well do something else? 

 Yeah. 

 Ok, wait, wait. Go with me here for a second, um, before  Gets here. So were gonna go see the pretty girls play. We can ask  To join us on this-- this very innocent group outing. 

 Or, you know, why bother with the subtleties? We can just, uh, club him over the head and drag him out. 

 Jack, work with me here. 

 No, no, no. We should definitely ask him to come. Itd be fun if we all went. Its just, uh... well,  Doesnt really date. 

 What? Does he just jump straight into the sack? Coffee to condoms? What are we talking here? 

 Um, no. You see, I mean, he doesnt date at all. Well, his life is sort of complicated. He, um... nah, I shouldnt really talk about it. 

 Whatever it is, Im sure its not that bad. Come on, bring it on. 

 Please? , will you stop using my friend as your deep throat, please? Uh, yeah. F-f-forget I said that one. Clears throat Here comes  

 Oh, hey. 

 Hey. 

 Um, look, this is totally last minute, but I dont suppose that youd wanna come with us tonight and see our friend play in a band? 

 Its Audrey. You know Audrey. The one thats guaranteed to entertain. 

 I recall. Yeah, sounds like fun. 

 Excellent. 

 notices Freeman walking their way

 Jack. Um, soon-to-be-extinct freeman approaches and kinda looks like he needs to pee. 

 I think maybe he just wants to talk to you. 

 Yeah. Uh, excuse me, guys. Im sorry. Ill be right back. 

 Wanna sit? 

 Yep. 

Jack goes over to talk with Freeman, and they go outside to talk.

Freeman Im sorry. I didnt mean to interrupt you and your friends. 

 Thats all right. Thats all right. I, uh-- plenty of time to eat. So class today, how about that? 

Freeman Um, jack... I keep thinking about that first conversation we had, when you said that this was the first time youd felt motivated in a long while. Id hate to think that Id taken away the college experience you deserve. 

 Well, Ill keep on applying myself. 

Freeman Look, um, next week is reading week, and after that, theres finals, and after that, well... Im gone. It would just-- it would mean a lot to me if you were there tonight, jack. 

 Ill think about it. 



 s Workplace.  is sitting at his desk, when Rich comes in carrying a bunch of Plane tickets in his hands, and he begins giving them out to various people.



 I hope you guys packed condoms and toothpaste this morning cause were taking a little trip. You all passed your series 7s, some of you with flying colors, you smarty-pants pansies. So tonight, we celebrate. 

 New Orleans? 

 How about that, huh? Yes, we are so obnoxiously wealthy we are flying to the big easy to indulge in all its pleasures for 24 sickening hours. So dont tell me you have to call your mommies or anything. Just admit that first class, free hotel rooms, and good old southern girls who learned to drink before you played Nintendo are all too good to pass up. Pack it up, gentlemen. Logan, 1 hour. 

Man Yeah, baby. Man laughs 



Commercial Break



 A bar in New Orleans. Rich is sitting at one end of the bar with a girl in his arms, while  is on the other side of the corner from him, talking to a very hot woman.



Woman So you guys are here for the weekend, huh? 

 Just the night actually. 

Woman Oh, thats too bad. Theres a lot of fun to be had here. 

 Yeah, I can see that. 

Woman I could show you around. 

 You know, Ive actually been here before. 

Woman Oh. 

 Yeah, my girlfriend and I, we came through here this summer. 

Woman So you have a girlfriend. 

 Oh, no. No, no. She dumped me. 

Woman Heh. Well, I think my friends are waiting for me, but its nice meeting you, Percy. 

She walks away, and  turn and watches her go, then notices another hot woman sitting at the bar alone near him.

 Hi, there. I dont do guys in mourning. 

 Witter, man. You are pathetic, and here I thought youd be my only competition. Youre making this too easy. 

 Well, look, Rinaldi, it would be a lot different if I was actually in this game, which Im not because women do actually like the sensitive type. 

 Yeah, ok, cause thats whats been working for me. Right? 

Rich laughs 



 Hells Kitchen. Joey is sitting at the bar and the crowd is beginning to pack it in getting ready for the band. Eddie is pouring a drink in front of her.



 Everything seems magical when you see it from the other side, right? 

 The command with which you pour is staggering. 

 Thank you. Hows class today? 

 The usual. Were ending gravitys rainbow, and  spent a good 5 minutes insisting Id never understand the experimental ramblings. 

 Well, thats silly. Diane chambers is an extremely well-read character. Im sure she would have schooled . 

 Do, you know, your whole Sam Diane class argument thing, its very weak. He definitely made more money than her. 

 Yeah, and I make more money than your Worthington colleagues who dont need a job, but that doesnt put us in the same bracket, now does it? 

Audrey comes running up to the bar and stops next to Joey.

 Hey, cute bar boy. Give me a shot, will ya? I got the shakes. She hugs Joey You are so awesome for coming to see me play, and here, buy a round of shots for the future boyfriends of America. 

She takes her drink, and throws some money down on the bar, and then goes back to several guys

 Mmm. Choking Oh, god. Ah—

They watch Audrey go into the arms of several guys with her drink

 God, who did her parents buy off to get her into Worthington? 

 Youre more acerbic than usual tonight, if thats possible. Everything ok? 

 Yeah. Im sorry. I just-- I hate working doubles, and I--I dont like working with Sam. 

 No one to flirt with, huh? 

 Yeah, or clumsily insult, whichever you prefer. 

 Well, Ill come back up later. Right now, I have to go stroke Audreys ego. 

 Sounds enticing. 

Joey goes over to Audrey

People laughing 

 Hey. 

 Hi, sweetie. 



 The book signing. Jack comes into the book store, and looks around at the large amount of people have shown up, and notices Freeman by a table of his book talking to some man.





Freeman Well thanks for coming. Um, hope you enjoy

Jack walks over to Freeman

Freeman Jack, you came. 

 Yeah. I, uh... I dont like to let free food go to waste. 

Freeman Well, whatever the reason, Im glad. 

 It looks like a lot of people support your decision. 

Freeman Eh, slow night on campus maybe. Its tricky putting together projects like this book. Theres always gonna be a handful of people wholl think that its bathroom material, but I always held out the naive belief that there would be a reader or two who might find something stimulating beyond easy cultural references. 

 Yeah, some of my friends assumed that your class was cultural cliff notes which would pretty much make it Entertainment Weekly, I guess. 

Freeman Did you feel that way? 

 All things aside, did I ever seem less than riveted? Jack notices that Freeman is staring deeply into his eyes Um, y-your wife, um... must not be too psyched moving to chicago in the height of winter.

Freeman Actually, shes not going to make the move with me. 

 Im--Im sorry. 

Freeman Well, lets--lets not. I can talk in circles about where I went wrong, and a Maudlin Freeman isnt gonna do either of us any good. 

 Yeah. 

Freeman So I gotta ask. Why did you decide to come? Dont you have somewhere to be? 

 Um. No, no. I-- I have some time. 

Freeman Thats great. Let me introduce you to some people. 



 Hells Kitchen. ,  and David are all sitting at a table talking while waiting for Jack to show up.



 I have no idea what is keeping Jack, David. Im sure its-- its a hair-related issue. 

 Nah, its ok. Its flattering to think that each carefully misplaced strand might be for me. 

 Aww.

 Im gonna head up to the bar. You guys need anything? 

 No, Im good. 

 Im fine. 

David goes to the bar, leaving them alone.

 Well, Im glad that you came tonight. I know that this might not really be your thing. 

 How do you figure that? Ive nothing against good company... and I guess I cant speak to the quality of the music yet, but... 

 Oh, well, Audrey is nothing if not a stellar performer. 

 Hows she been lately? 

 Audrey? 

 Yeah. 

 Great. Good. 

They look over and see Audrey Doing another shot with the guys, while Joey watches her.

 Whoo! Aah! 

 Well, maybe not the greatest of greats, but I would give her a solid good. Why do you ask? 

 Well, she seems like she might be a little depressed. 

 She doesnt look depressed. 

 Well, its easy not to look it when youre doing youre damndest not to feel it... or anything, for that matter. 

Over buy the bar, David is waiting for his drink, when his cell phone rings

 Hello. 

 Uh, David, hey. Uh, its me. Look, I am so sorry. 

 Oh, dont worry about it. Are you on your way? 

 Uh, no, not exactly. 

 Should I call the police maybe? Is there something you cant say in front of the kidnappers? 

 Im coming. I promise. I just got sucked into this nightmare academic schmooze-fest. I have, like, 2 more profound things to say, and Im out of here. I swear. 

 Hey, dont worry about it. Uh, S here, and your friends have all mastered the art of polite conversation. So, I will see you when I see you. 

 All right, cool. Ill see ya. 



 The bar in New Orleans. Rich and  come walking by a woman sitting at the table alone, and Rich stops to talk to her.



 How you doin? 

Denise Fine. 

 I didnt ask how you were looking. I asked how you were doin. 

 Oh, come on, rich. Even I gotta stop you on that one. I mean, who says that? 

Denise Your friend does apparently. 

 Oh, no. Hes not my friend. 

 Thats right. Im his boss. Rich Rinaldi. 

Denise Im Denise. 

 Thats a beautiful name for a beautiful girl. I think Denise means drama in its Greek origin, and might I say, Denise, that you have breasts that are begging to be touched. 

Denise Oh, thats a coincidence, since you apparently have testicles that are begging to be castrated. 

 Ok, then. Ill take my goods elsewhere. 

Denise Please do. 

Rich leaves and  watches as he goes

 You know, I think rich actually means slime ball in its original form, but Id have to check the books on that. 

Denise Whats your name? 

 Im , and I am truly sorry for that, though Im sure youre used to having men saying all kinds of inappropriate things to you all the time. 

Denise I am. Im not used to them leaving their considerably more attractive and likable friends behind. 



 Hells Kitchen. Eddie is filling some drinks at the end of the bar, when Joey comes up to join him.



 Miss me? 

 How could I when Ive been waiting on you and your friends all night, you know? 

 Good point. So what are you doing after? 

 Tonight? 

 Well, yeah, I mean, I know whenever I get off work theres nothing more depressing than trying to go directly asleep with visions of drunkards dancing in my head, so... I was thinking some sort of social activity would be a good segue. 

 I dont know. 

 We could—

Audrey comes stumbling up to the bar, and slams her empty beer bottle on the bar.

 Hey! Let me have another beer for the stage. 

 Nah, I cant let you take that up there. 

 Come on, you guys both work here, like anyone cares. 

 Well, I care actually, and it seems to me youre already wasted. 

 Well, whos fault is that? 

 Uh, yours. 

 Yeah, well, you served me, sucker. 

 Yeah, now Im cutting you off. Looks like youre gonna have to listen to yourself sing sober. Sorry. 

 Come on, Eddie, I mean... its not like shes going out driving. Its just--shes nervous. 

 Havent you ever considered our asses might be on the line for serving underage people? Or did that just kinda slip your mind cause youre not working tonight? 

 What are you talking about? This is a college bar. I mean, youve never cared before. 

 Yeah, well, I care when an underage girl gets drunk and trashes the place on my watch. Im cutting her off. Thats it. 

 Gah, somebody needs to get laid. 

 Audrey. 

 Whatever. He clearly takes his job too seriously. Tell me something, Eddie. Whats it like looking down the barrel of a gun and seeing a janitors uniform and a bus pass? 

Joey turns and gives Audrey a very dirty look.

 Youll get me another beer, wont you, sweetie? 

 Im thinking no. 

 Jeez! Its like this bars run by Donna Reed and Mr. Rogers. 

She slams the beer bottle down again, and it shatters on the bar.

 All right, get her out of here. 

 Did you not just witness my magnificent force? 

Emma quickly comes over to get Audrey

 Yeah, Audrey, did you not hear us warming up up there? Think were doing it for a lark? Get up there. 

 I love you, you crazy bird! 

 Hey, spread the joy on stage, Courtney Love. Ok? Were on. 

 Bah! 

Go, go, go. 

They leave

 Im not her keeper. 

 No, its worse actually. Youre her friend. 

Audrey stumbles onto the stage and grabs the microphone.

Cheers and applause 

 Hey, how are we all doin tonight? Were hells belles, and we are here to throw down this fascist regime. Seems like the establishment dont want us to have a good time. Who wants to stick it to the man? 



Audrey begins performing, One Way Or Another. and quickly becomes aggressive on stage, Knocking down her mic stand, bouncing into the other band members, screwing with the controls on the amps all as she is singing. Emma just watches her but continues to play, shaking her head the entire time. Audrey goes into the crowd, still singing, and makes her way to the bar, where she climbs onto the bar, kicking off drinks, opening the beer taps, and Eddie quickly closes them, and Joey looks to Eddie like to say she was sorry and had no idea what was going on. Eddie puts his face in his hand thinking “Why is this happening to me?” She makes her down the bar, hitting lights along the way, while continuing to sing her song as the bad is still playing. She rips of her shirt and the crowd screams approval. She reaches down and grabs a beer out of one of the guys hands, and takes a swig, and throws the bottle across the room, and , CJ, and David quickly duck, just avoiding getting hit by it as it smashes on the wall behind them. All of her friends look at her in disappointment, as the camera fades to black



Commercial Break



 Hells Kitchen bathroom. Audrey is throwing up in the toilet, as Joey is holding her hair back.



 Oh. Yeah, ok. I think thats everything. I think that there is some intestine in there. 

 Ok. Why dont we go get you some water? How much did you drink? 

Joey watches as Audrey goes over to the sink and turns it on taking a sip of water from it  

 Clearly, I dont remember. 

 Were you drinking in the changing room? Because I didnt see you have that much at the bar. 

 I said I dont remember. This—

 Audrey, not to sound like an after school special, but this kind of isnt like you. 

 And what exactly is like me? You know, I couldve been an alkie since age 6. You dont know. 

 Its just—

 Im fine! Have you never gotten drunk before? 

 Yeah, actually, I have, and its usually been because I felt pretty awful about something, so... look, I was just wondering if you felt awful. 

 I feel like I dont want to have a soulful exchange about how Im bad and youre good, if thats what you mean. 

 You know, thats not where I was going. 

 Like hell it wasnt. You know, youve mastered the art of holier than thou, Joey. You know, dont feed me a bunch of crap about how you dont need to drink or do drugs to have fun because Ive given it some thought, and you know what? Ive never seen you have fun a day in my life. Except for that whole singing thing, and even then you were just imitating me. 

 Ok, you know what? Maybe we should just save this for the morning because we dont want to say anything well regret. 

 God! Will you stop protecting me?! Im so sick of living in this little antiseptic universe youve all created. All we do is we sit around and we drink soda and we talk about how glad we are that were all friends, which is ridiculous, Joey, because what kind of friend wouldnt know that I broke up with my boyfriend? 

 You know what, Audrey? I said I was sorry about that. 

 You know what? I dont even care. I just dont want someone whos completely dropped out of my life suddenly judging it. I mean, did you even notice that I was depressed fore I upset your little boyfriend from southie? 

 Eddie is not my boyfriend. 

 Right. I think its really frigging pathetic that thats the only thing you had the need to comment on. 



 The Book Signing. Jack is walking outside when Freeman comes up to join him.



Freeman So have fun tonight, wherever youre going. 

 To be honest, I dont know if theres somewhere left to go. 

Freeman I didnt mean to keep you in there with my boring scholastic jabber. 

 No. No, I wasnt bored. Its why Im braving social leprosy. 

Freeman Im glad you came. Theres a part of my book that I wrote after class early in the semester, youd made a comment in class about the asexuality of good guys in film. It was a small thing I remember, but it sparked something, and I thought no one does that anymore. Sparks something. You were right. Not just in class. You were just... you were right about a lot of things. 

 Wasnt waiting for you to tell me that, if thats why you think Im standing here the cold. 

Freeman Then why are you 

 Its sad...that youre probably the most popular professor here, the most inspirational, and yet you felt you had to hide that part of yourself thats real. But you know what? However long it took for you to get here, at least you did it. And thats why Im standing out here in the cold. 

Freeman A week ago I was this unavailable married man. There used to be about 6 different versions of myself I presented to the world. Now theres just...this. And now I kind of wish Id noticed it sooner. Or that Id noticed you. Maybe its too late. You tell me. 

Freeman, makes his way to try and kiss him, but Jack stops him.

 I cant. Im sorry, I cant. Ive kept someone waiting all night that the timing was actually right with. Its late. I gotta go. Yeah, I gotta go. 



 Hells Kitchen. , C.J and David are cleaning up the remnants of the beer bottle that Audrey threw at the wall.



 Guess you werent so off base with the whole Audrey thing. 

 You mean her performances arent typically that inspired? 

 Uh, not so nifer Jason Leigh in Georgia, no. 

A waitress comes walking up with a bussing tray.

Waitress Thank you. 

 Audreys one of the few people that I know who seemed to enter the fold well adjusted and confident. She made all of us seem dramatic. 

 Its hard to keep putting up a front like that, once people expect it from you. You know, you wake up in the morning, you dont feel so great, so you need something to take off the edge. Thats what I used to do. When I hit high school, I was shaking by noon if I wasnt drunk. So rather than thinking like, "hey, that cant be normal" I just kept drinking. Provided a steady numb ride through those awkward teen years. Its tough to get off of.

 Yeah. Yeah, but you did. So you mustve done something right. 

 Yeah. Yeah. I hit rock bottom. Sure fire way to snap out of something is to wake up from a blackout realizing that you were the guy at the party who told everybody exactly what they didnt want to hear and then alienating the one person that you cared about. So, theres that, which is why I dont date anymore. 

 I really--I dont think you have to be so hard on yourself. I--we all mess up. 

 , you really dont want to know that much about me, I promise. 



 Outside s Hotel Room.  and Denise are making out as they arrive at the door and crash onto it.  begins to quickly try to find the key for the door.



 Uh, probably gonna need a key for this. 

Denise That might help. Where would you have put that? 

She reaches down, and grabs his manhood, then makes her way to his pocket and reaches in and pulls out the key.

 Uh, hold on one second. 

Denise Im not so good at waiting. Here we go. 

 Ok.

He quickly unlocks the door and they make their way into the room.



 Hells Kitchen. Eddie is cleaning up the mess that Audrey left, when Joey comes walking up to join him and help.



 Some night, huh? 

 Yep. 

 Im sorry about... sorry about the whole drinking, singing debacle. I didnt know it was gonna go that way. 

 It wasnt your problem, right? You werent working, so why should it matter that your friends were gonna trash the place? 

 Its not like they intended to do that. 

 Thats not really the point, Joey. 

 Well, care to fill me in on what the point is? 

 Why should I make you stand here and listen to my diatribe when you clearly have better things to do? Excuse me.

 Why are you so insistent tonight that Im wasting my time with you when every time I approach you, its been because I wanted to talk? 

 Maybe Ive had a hard time talking to you because I cant figure out who Im talking to. Is this Joey Potter my bartending buddy, or is this Joey Potter who runs with the Worthington elite? 

 Thats funny. I thought there was more of an intimate middle ground. 

 Look, you just learn a lot about people when you see them with their friends, ok? 

 You see me with my friends in here all the time. How is this different? 

 Its different when your friends are flaunting state drinking laws and insulting me to my face. 

 Look, Im sorry about that, ok? If it makes you feel any better, I just got a pretty nasty tongue lashing from Audrey in there. 

 What wouldve made me feel better is if you wouldve defended me. If you had mentally shown up there, Joey, that mightve been nice. 

 Eddie, she was drunk. We deal with those people all of the time. 

 Youre right, Joey. Why should I make you feel bad for letting your friend ride out her high-class problems? I should be used to it by now, right? My mistake was just thinking you were different from the rest of them. 

 How can you say that when youve barely even tried to find out? I dont know, maybe youre just threatened because I tried to find out more about you, but thats just because I was trying to help you—

 I know what you were trying to do, Joey, and I dont think you should bother. I dont think either of us should because Ive been thinking about it, and this little dance we do, its nothing more than that. Its just flirting. 

 You dont think theres anything more here?

 I dont think theres anything good. 



Commercial Break



 s Hotel Room.  and Denise are still making out, while  backs up to the bed and sits down, and begins to slowly unzip Denises dress.



Denise Can I ask you something? 

 Absolutely. 

Denise This isnt your first time, is it? 

 Am I really that bad? 

Denise No. Just most guys dont bother with the obligatory foreplay. Which is greatly appreciated and all, but Im kind of a sure thing. 

 Ok, well, Ill do my best to not tend to any of your needs, but I cant promise anything. 

He begins kissing her, and slowly back them onto the bed

Denise Seriously, weve been at this for a while now, and your friend didnt pay for the night. She pushes him down onto the bed and climbs on top of him Mm... listen it was a nice thing he was doing. You should just enjoy it. But I really... 

 stops her, realizing that she is a hooker, and makes his way out of the bed.

 I cant. I cant. Im sorry.

Denise I dont have to leave. 

 No. You absolutely dont have to leave. You can stay here as long as you like, but...I--I just... I cant do this. I just thought you were a beautiful woman that I met down in the bar. And that there was a little... something between us, but theres obviously not. And thats fine. But I now have to go to talk to someone, so you stay here and... Im really sorry. 

He leaves her alone in the room.



 Outside the Hells Kitchen.  and  come walking outside talking to one another.



 So youre sure Davids gonna be ok in the all by himself? 

 Oh, yeah. Yeah. He said hed hang around for another half hour, then call it a night. 

 God, I dont know what Jacks problem is, but Im gonna kick his ass. 

 Well, luckily Davids a very patient man. 

 You know, Im just really glad you came out tonight. I was worried you wouldnt want to. 

 You know, you keep saying that. Just cause I dont drink doesnt mean I dont socialize. 

 But you dont date.

 No. 

 You told me once that I should change my mind about myself, and I think that you should probably do the same thing. 

 goes to kiss him, but he stops her

 . I can Im sorry, its... its not nothing to do with you, I promise. Youre... youre beautiful, and youre great. I just really cant. 

 Ok. 

 Im gonna get you a cab home, ok? 

 Ok. 

 You gonna be ok? 

 Yeah. Im fine. Nothing a little sleep and regret cant cure. 

 Good night. 

 Good night. 

 pulls away in the cab.  looks across the street and sees Audrey sitting on the curb smoking a cigarette, and goes over and sits down next to her. She puts out the cigarette when she sees him.

 I only had a couple of puffs, I swear. 

 I dont care if you smoke. 

 Well, thats shocking. Because I thought for sure there was some sort of lo-jack system on me, and anyone within a mile radius was gonna chastise me for partaking in any sort of substance. You know, I wonder if sugars ok because I have some sweet tarts in my pocket, and Im not afraid to eat them. 

 People have been pretty hard on you tonight, havent they? 

 You know the funny thing is that it was all great when I was drunk. That was a super old time. Now Im sober, and everythings gone to hell. 

 You know, your friends were just trying to let you know they cared. Maybe they didnt go about it the right way.

 Its not like Im a drunk, you know. God, were in college, for crying out loud. Doesnt anyone just ever have a week that sucks, and they want to forget about it? 

 Does it make you feel better... when you...drink? 

 I feel nothing, which is ideal. 

 How long you gonna keep that up for? 

 I dont know. I dont know. 

 If you wanna talk or... 

 You dont have to sit with me, really. 

 You dont have to say that. If I dont want to be here, Id have walked away already. 

 Ok. So well sit. I dont wanna talk for a while. 

Audrey shivers, and  pulls some gloves out of his pockets and gives them to Audrey



 Bourbon Street. Rinaldi and a group of guys and women are walking down the street all grouped together, laughing and having a good time, when  comes running up to them.



Guy You owe me 20 bucks, Rinaldi. 

 Rich! Hey, Rinaldi! Come here. 

 Whats your problem, Witter? 

 My problem is the little trick you just tried to play on me. 

 Youre not morally opposed to ladies of the night, are you? 

Katz Dude, Witter stuffed a whore! 

 Actually, I didnt, Katz, but you keep talking. You watch how quickly your night ends. 

 You didnt even do it? What, you got a problem down there, Witter, or just have trouble taking off your little dress? 

 Is this a joke to you? Cause let me tell you, Im not laughing. 

 Tell me about it. No. It was my idea of showing you a good time. Believe me. She didnt come cheap. 

 I forgot that about you. It all relates back to money. You buy your friends, you buy your women, you buy women for your friends. That way its clean, its easy. No emotion, right? Well, let me tell you, Rich. The only favor I want you to do for me is take me off your charity list. Cause youre pathetic, man. 

 Honestly, man, Im not getting it. A couple of solid hours with a really hot girl you never have to call again, and what, you play tiddly winks? I must be real dumb because it seems like you owe me. 

 Youre right. I do. I absolutely—

 grabs Rich by his coat.

Overlapping shouts 

 How dare you do that to me?! 

 Im pissed! 

 Im really pissed at your moral outrage. No need to get violent. When are you gonna realize fighting the good fights not worth it? 



 Outside the Hells Kitchen. David has gotten tired of waiting, and is leaving the bar, when a cab pulls up, and Jack quickly gets out of it.



 Hey, David. David, I am so sorry. I--I cant believe that youre still here. 

 What, you were hoping Id be gone? 

 No! No. No. Of course not. Im glad you stayed. I just kept missing my window of opportunity to get out of there. 

 That mustve been rough. 

 Yeah. Im not being too convincing, am I? 

 Look, Jack, Im not so naive coming into this that I didnt expect there to be some baggage. You cant really move into a new relationship until you know the old one isnt gonna lurch up from the dead one last time. So, do what you gotta do. 

 I did. I mean, I didnt. I... I didnt have to. 

 You dont have to report to me. 

 Well, youre right about the baggage. Its just not... before we got into this, I just wanted to make sure that I was done repeating my mistakes. And I am. 

 That works for me. 

 Cool. 

 Yeah. Cool. 

 So why did you even bother sticking around here? 

 Hey, dont think I was waiting for the confused likes of you. 

 Chuckles 

 I was having a good time, and you missed a hell of an act. 

 Huh. Did I? 

 Yes. It was one magical night youll never get back. 

 So this ones gonna be tough to top. 

 Thats awfully presumptuous to assume were going out again. 

 Oh, ha! I see how it is. I see how it is. 



 Bourbon Street.  walking all alone down the empty street the next morning, trying to think everything through



 Joey and Audreys Dorm room. Joey wakes up and looks across the room at Audreys bed, and notices that is it still made up from the day before. Joey looks a little worried.  a little later, and Joey is sitting at the desk reading and looks over at the empty bed again.



Knock on door 

 Wow! So this is how the other half lives. 

 What are you doing here? 

 Uh, your little friend left her wallet at the bar last night. Cant imagine how she forgot it, with the drunken spectacle and the vomiting and all. 

 Thanks. 

She grabs the wallet, and goes to close the door when Eddie stops her.

 Wait a minute. Wait, Joey. Last night I said a lot of things I didnt mean. 

 Yeah, like what things? 

 Many things. It could be that I have some unresolved anger towards society that has nothing to do with you. 

 Thats good. 

 Yeah, Ive been working on that one a while. 

 It almost resembled an apology.

 Well, you know, I been thinking about it all night. 

 Whats it? 

 This. Me, you. It didnt feel good. 

 What part? 

 The not pursuing it part. 

 You know, uh... the pushing away usually comes when theres something to push away from. 

 Please, Joey, I would love to get to the point where I can resent you, if youll only give me the chance. 

 We cant keep doing this. 

 What? 

 This. This...saying things we dont mean. Dancing around the subject. I mean, dont you find it maddening? 

 Well, yeah, but I meant that thing about the resentment. Ok. All right, I get what youre talking about. So, what would you say if you said what you meant? 

 Id like to go on a date with you. An actual date. Without the obstacles of pre-teen girls and drunken roommates. What would you say? 

 Well, Id like to get to know you and prove myself wrong. 

 About? 

 Thinking you represent everything I hate. I think you just might represent everything Im missing. Hoo, ok, so... its a date. See you later, Joey. 

They shake hands. Then Eddie turns to leave and Joey waves, and the camera fades to black
 Hells Kitchen. Dawson is sitting at a table with , Jack and David. They are all drinking colas while waiting for food to arrive.

 So let me get this straight,  and Audrey broke up, but Joey and Audrey are fighting. 

 Yes, majorly. Dawson, youve got to call more often. 

 Hold on a second, ok? A) The guy has obviously been really busy, ok? And B) I mean... shes--shes-- shes exaggerating, cause nobodys broken any nails yet. 

 Its more like theyre keeping their distance from each other. 

 Thank you. 

 No problem. 

 You know, Im sure that if we could get them in the same room, they would work things out just fine.

 Joey and Audrey? 

 No,  and Audrey. Duh. 

Emma comes up to the table carrying a tray full of food. Goes to hand the food out.

 Here we go. 

 Uh, no—

Gives the burger to David that she almost gave to 

 Sorry about that. What about you, love? To Dawson Can I get you anything? 

 Uh, no, thanks. I cant stay that long. 

Emma looks a little disappointed, then leaves them

 Oh. Oh, yeah, let me guess. Uh... shes not working tonight, if thats what youre asking. 

 Yeah, why dont you stay and have a cheeseburger? Come on, Dawson, we never get to see you anymore. 

 Really, I have to go. 

 Dawson. 

 I cant, I swear. I got to get back. Todd thinks Im running an errand right now, which, technically... I am. 

He pulls an envelope out of his pocket and hands it to 

 What is this? 

 Its a present. 

 Oh, you feel so bad cause you dont call, you got to give us presents. 

 Just open it. Its not a guilt offering. Id use it myself if I could. 

She opens it and pulls out a bunch of concert tickets

 Oh, my god! These are tickets to the No Doubt concert. Dawson, this is amazing. Theres like 10 tickets in here. Are you sure that this is ok? 

 Absolutely. Todd got them for free. I think he knows the band or something. 

 You know what? Why dont you just, uh—Dont give the man a chance to change his mind there, all right? 

 Anyway, go, enjoy it. Have fun. And, uh, let me know what happens once you get  and Audrey in the same place at the same time. 

 Thank you so much. 

 Thanks, man. 

Dawson goes to leave and runs into Joey who is just arriving to the bar.

 Hey. 

 Hey. 

 Im sorry. I was just, uh—

 Oh, dont apologize. Um...are they—

 yeah, theyre back there. Jack and ... 

 Oh, good. I was hoping for some company. How have you been? 

 Great. Really great. Ive been busy. 

 Great. 

 Heard you and Audrey had a fight. 

 Yeah... those things happen, I guess. People fight. 

 Yeah. All right, well, I dont want to keep you. 

 Dawson, theyre your friends, too. 

 Yeah, I know. I just--I got to go. 

 Its nice seeing you.

 You, too. 

He leaves and she looks a little disappointed that he left.



Opening Credits



Commercial Break



 Hells Kitchen. Joey and Eddie are sitting at the table talking to each other. Joey is trying to convince hi to drive them to the concert.



 No Doubt? 

 Yeah. Look, I know its kind of a schlep to Worcester, but theyre totally amazing live, and you do have a car. 

 Worcester? 

 Yeah, its only like an hour from here. 

 I know, I know. So on our date tonight, you want me to drive you to Worcester? 

 Correct. 

 And when we get there, all your friends will be there. 

 Well, not all of them... ok, most. 

 So how is that a date? 

 What makes it a date is that Im there... and youre there. And if you play your cards right, you might just get a kiss at the end of the evening. 

 A kiss? 

 Yeah, thats usually how the whole first-date thing traditionally shakes out. You know, you walk me to my door, you kiss me, you leave. 

 But Ive already gotten a kiss. 2, actually. And I dont know that Im prepared to drive all the way to Worcester for, what? For the possibility of some measly little good-night kiss? 

 There is another option on offer for the end of the evening. 

 Yes? 

 You walk me to my door… we shake hands… and I reimburse you for gas money. 

 Nice. 

 So are you in or out? 

 Im in. 



 The Movie Set. Todd and Dawson are walking together along the set, while Dawson is trying to point out that they are not doing anything. 



Todd Is it just me, or, uh, is there something weird about this day? 

 Um, the fact that we finished all our day work before lunch, and now were just paying all these people to stand around doing nothing until the sun sets? 

Todd Oh, there isnt someplace youd rather be, is there? 

 No, but look around. Everybodys exhausted, including yourself. All these night shoots have finally caught up with us. 

Todd Oh, I see. So youre saying I should give up 2 night exteriors I really need so the crew can knock off 4 hours early on a Friday? 

 4 hours, 35 minutes, would be even better. 

Todd Theres a bloody pool going? 

 Big one. Think about it. I mean, honestly, you wrap early tonight, everybody comes in Monday completely refreshed. 

Todd Everyone, including you? 

 Sure. 

Todd And ? 

 Sure. 

Todd I get it. So all this friend-to-the-crew stuff was just an excuse to get the night off so you could take her to that concert? 

 Ill split the money with you. 

Todd Laughs Not necessary. 

 I already won 500 in the when-will- Dawson-and--start- shagging-again pool. 

Todd pulls an envelope out of coat pocket and hands it to Dawson

Todd Here. 

 What are these? 

Todd My tickets. Theyre much better than the ones I gave you. And I think theres some backstage pass in there, too. 

 You dont want to go? 

Todd Between you and me? Im old... and tired, and if were going to wrap 4 hours and 35 minutes early, all I want to do is go home and get some sleep. Go get em, tiger. 



 Record Store.  and Audrey are shopping for some CDs and Audrey grabs a copy of the New No Doubt Album “Rock Steady”



 So, youre coming, right? I mean, if the band can overcome their complicated romantic entanglements and still be friends, the least that we can do is all get along for one night. 

 All right, I am willing to grant that there is a certain karmic appropriateness to seeing ones ex-boyfriend for the first time at a No Doubt concert. 

 Youre bending. 

 Im not bending. 

 Oh, come on, you know you want to. Empowered female. Incredible fashion sense. 

 I suppose mojo jojo will be attending. 

 Oh, come on, if you can-- if you can be with her in that tiny little dorm room of yours, youre going to be just fine in a crowd of 14,000 strangers. 

 So shes bringing that guy, right? 

 Mm-hmm, but we dont have to sit next to them. Were using the gays as a barrier between the breeders and the bitter, single girls. 

 So, what? Are they, like, dating now? 

 Look at you. You want the gossip so bad its killing you. 

 I dont want the gossip. I just...I dont know-- I want to hear that she has a pimple or something. I want there to be one tiny little chink in her armor of perfection. I mean, has that girl ever made a mistake? Ever? 

 Yeah, actually, the same one that you did. She dumped . 

 Thats funny. You know, the way I always heard it, he dumped her. 

 Oh, whatever. Who knows? Who cares? Honestly, the important thing is is that theyre still friends... like us. 

 Do you mean that? 

 Yes, I do. 

 Sighs 

 So you coming? 

 Im coming. 

 Yay! Im so glad. You are not going to regret this. We are going to have an incredible night. 

She walks backwards while Audrey is heading to the counter to pay, when she backs right into a guy who turns out to be CJ.

 Oh, my god. I am so sorry. Hi. 

CJ Hi. Hi. 

 Hi. 

Audrey walks purposely away from him to the counter

 Hey. Im sorry, I was just... not looking where I was going. 

CJ Yeah, you seemed pretty excited there. 

 Yeah, well, were actually going to a No Doubt concert tonight. 

CJ Cool. Well, have fun. Well, see ya. 

He turns back to looking in the stacks for music

 Look, I dont want to pretend that nothing happened between us, and... and I also dont want to make a big deal out of the... nothing that did happen between us. Um... here, if you want to come. 

CJ Youre giving me a ticket to the No Doubt concert? 

 Yeah, I mean, Jacks going, and David, and all of us, really, so its--its not like a date. 

He looks over at Audrey, who just turns her gaze from him

CJ No, I didnt think it was. 

 Great. Great. Well, um... like I said, come if you want. To Audrey All right, Im picking you up at 700. No bailing, ok? 

 leaves, and CJ goes over to talk to Audrey

CJ So, were you ever going to call me back? 

 I think that the answer to that would be fairly obvious. 

She storms out of the record store and he chases after her

CJ You know, we didnt do anything wrong. 

 No, of course not. We were great, you know? And well probably win some sort of award for moral fortitude and the proper use of birth control. 

CJ I dont see what the big deal is here. Its not like shes my girlfriend, ok? 

 Yeah? Well, neither am I. Im just... Im an idiot. 

CJ Oh, so, what? Youre just going to pretend like nothing ever happened? 

 Yes, and unless you want me to kill you, you will, too. 



Commercial Break



 The No Doubt Concert. Joey and Eddie are waiting in line to get in, and they notice a couple who are all cuddly in line.



Guy Tickets. 

 Disgusting, isnt it? When people cant keep their hands off each other? 

Eddie was just about o put his arms around Joey, but quickly puts them down at his side.

 Yeah. Just, uh, yeah. 

Guy Tickets. Tickets, please. 

 I have them. I do. I must have them. 

Guy Thats what they all say. 

 No. I was leaving, I put them in my coat pocket, and... I wore my other coat. 

Guy A fashion tragedy. Next. 

 Crap! 

Guy Tickets. 

 Ok, but are you sure you didnt leave them in the car or something? 

 Yes, Im positive. Theyre... theyre in my other coat, which is sitting on my bed back in my dorm room. 

 Well, dont panic or anything. Well just go back for them. 

 Youre volunteering to drive more? 

 Hey, youre paying for gas. 

 No, itll take us an hour just to walk back to the car. 

 So? 

 So with that, plus traffic, theyll be on their third encore by the time we get back. 

 What do you want to do? You just want to forget about this whole thing? 

 No. I dont know. 

 Look, you really want to go to this concert, dont you? 

 Yes. Im a dorky fan, I admit it, but I love this band. 

 Then were going. 

 Eddie, its going to take us—

 Silence... before I come to my senses and change my mind. Come on. 



 The No Doubt Concert. In another line, Dawson and  are kissing and necking while waiting for their turn, but the line is moving forward without them.



Woman Are you guys going or what? 

 Sorry. So tacky when people cant keep their hands off each other in public. 

 Sorry. 

Lady Tickets, please. 

 Here you go. 

Lady Wrong night, Romeo. 

 Excuse me? 

Lady These are for Saturday. 

 No, they cant be. These are--crap. 

Lady Good seats, too. Really would have impressed your girlfriend here. Next! 

 I cant believe I did this. This is--I-- I should have known better than to trust Todd. The guy probably thinks today is Saturday. 

 We still have the backstage passes though, dont we? 

 Yeah, but we cant get in with those. We need the tickets. 

 Uh, hold on. Humor me. I have special skills in that department. 





 The No Doubt Concert.  and  are walking away from the Refreshments stand and heading towards their seats.



 Youre not going to regret this, I swear. Youre here, youre not in a suit. This is good. This is very, very good. Where is everybody else? 

 There at the concession stand. Jack and Emma, and, uh... the guy and the guys friend. 

 Yeah, well, his name is David, which you might want to remember. I think hes going to stick. 

 What, you posses the psychic ability to see into the future of relationships now? 

 Yes, just not my own. 

 Ah. So where are these seats anyway? Is that where were going now? 

 Yeah. Theyre-- theyre that way. I mean, theyre in that general direction. 

 Cool. 

 Ok, um... and when you go in that general direction... 

 Yes? 

 Theres--theres going to be somebody there who wants to talk to you. 

 Oh, come on. You did not just do this to me. 

 Yeah, we did, but out of love. Trust me, when you look back on this event in a few years, youre going to be very grateful, because you will have done the mature thing. 

 Sighs 

 Come on. Go. You know you want to. 

 their Seats.  walks over and notices Audrey already sitting there, and makes his way towards the seats.

 Excuse me. 

 Surprise. 

 Hey. I did call you, you know. 

 I know. At least I figured that I shouldnt talk to you until I hated you a little less. 

 Oh, well... hows that going for you? 

 Its going, yeah. The problem is now I kind of hate myself, but, uh... 

 Audrey, can we go talk a walk? Maybe talk someplace thats a little quieter and slightly more private before all the madness starts? 

 Chuckles You really are an old man, arent you? Sure. 

He nods

 Ok. 

They get up and leave

 Excuse us. 



 Outside the back door of the stadium. Joey and Eddie are at the back door, and Eddie is trying to talk to the guy who is there.



 Look, Im telling you, Im not trying to sneak backstage, ok? Im not some kind of deranged fan. I just need to talk to someone who works here. 

Man Is it me? 

 No, very funny, though. 

Man Good-bye. 

 No, I just need to talk to someone for—

The Guy slams the door on them.

 Just to let you know, we can stop this at any point. 

 But its going so well. 

 Oh, I can see that. Look, you dont have to harass some poor guy just to impress me. This whole thing is my fault, anyway. 

 Believe me, if this works, you will not be impressed. 

Eddie notices some more people headed towards them

 Hey, more people. This is good. Uh, this is good. Im gonna go ask them—

 Oh, no. No, youre not! 

Joey looks back and sees that it is Dawson and . She quickly grabs Eddies arms and pulls him behind some boxes so Dawson cant see her.

 Ok, this is totally gonna work, but you have to trust me. Itll work better if you pretend youre like my brother or something. 

 unbuttons a few of the top buttons of her shirt to show more cleavage.

 You did not just do that. 

 Do you want to get into this thing or not? 

 Id be perfectly happy if we went right back to the car—

 Hey! Its our night off. Were going. 

She knocks on the door and the guy comes out and instantly notices  and her cleavage.

 Hi. 

Man Hi. 

Eddie turns to Joey trying to figure out why they are hiding.

 Not that I care—

 Shh! Hell see us. 

 Who? Thats the guy from the movie set. 

 Yes. 

 And the guy from the movie set is the friend who gave you the tickets. 

 Yeah, kind of. 

 And now were hiding. Why? 

 I dont know. Gut instinct. 

 This is ridiculous. Come on. Come on. 

 Just wait till—

 no, no, come on, come on! 

Eddie notices that they are no longer at the door, and the door is slowly closing and runs up to catch the door before it loses



 Inside the back door. The guy is looking over the guest list with another guy, while Dawson and  wait. Eddie and Joey sneak past them while they are checking out the list

Guy Yeah, if, uh... thats tonights list, we should be on it. 

 Carr, Todd Carr, damage, inc. Big video director. You know, you guys probably spelled his name with a "K." 

Guy As much as it pains me to tell you this, lady, if youre not the list, youre not on the list. 

 Well, isnt there some other list? 

Guy Not tonight theres not. 

 Oh, well, maybe they messed up and put us on tomorrows list. I mean, that could happen, thats possible right? I mean, why else would we have these backstage passes? 

Guy Not my problem. 

 Well--ugh! Cant we work this out? 

Guy Afraid not. 

He pushes them both out the door.



 The No Doubt Concert.  and CJ are walking together to the Refreshments stand.



CJ I didnt know Audrey was involved with anybody. 

 Well, they just broke up, which is why I think shes been so crazy recently. I think that shes just having a hard time dealing. 

CJ Yeah, things like that can be tough. You want anything? 

 No, Im fine. 

CJ Just one coke, thanks. You know, to be honest, she seemed kind of single to me. 

 Why, cause of that night at that party? 

CJ Yeah, that, and other things. 

 You know, she just got confused. It happens to the best of us. 

CJ Yeah, it does. 

 You know, for two people who arent seeing each other, we end up alone an awful lot of the time. 

CJ Yeah, you know, Ive been thinking maybe we should talk about that. 

 No, I dont-- I dont think that that is necessary. 

CJ No, cause I feel bad, and I dont want to end up feeling worse. I mean, obviously, you have the wrong impression of me. 

 No. No, I mean, there was no room for ambiguity when you refused to kiss me, so—

CJ Ok, ok, hold on. I dont want you to think that Im playing games with you or something. 

 Because youre not? 

CJ No, Im not. Im actually... interested in somebody else. 

 Oh. I see, so, all that stuff about not being ready to date... just applied to me. 

CJ No, , I meant all that. I did. Im not ready to be serious with somebody. This other girl... kind of took me by surprise. It just kind of happened. I mean, we were at the wrong place at the wrong time, things escalated. 

 Did you sleep with this girl? he just has a weird look on his face  Wow, so, sleeping with people doesnt violate your moral code, but dating them does. 

CJ , let me explain something to you—

 No, you have. Really well, too. And for future reference, when things escalate with a girl, that generally means that shes interested in you. 

CJ Yeah, except when shes kind of messed up, already has a boyfriend. , I think youre great. I think youre a great person. Youre obviously a very good friend to Audrey, to everybody. 

 What... what does Audrey have... oh, my god. It was Audrey. You slept with Audrey. 

CJ Its not what you think, all right, she-- I messed up. 



Commercial Break



 The No Doubt Concert.  and Audrey are returning from getting a concert T-Shirt.



 So, thank you for the t-shirt. 

 Well, it is the least I can do for acting like a swine. 

 You werent a swine. You were just... a guy. 

 Id like to think that I get graded on a different curve than that. Perhaps the human being one. 

 Its not your responsibility to make me happy, . Its mine. 

 Well, lets be honest. You havent been doing such a bang-up job of that lately, Audrey. 

 I miss you, ok? 

 I miss you, too. 

He hugs her

 And honestly, I dont know how much more of this being down on yourself stuff I can take. 

 Yeah, well, what are you gonna do about it? 

 Im just gonna have to make you feel better, arent I? By force, if necessary. 

he starts tickling her

 Aah! , no rough-housing in public! 

 Whos the old man now, huh? 

 Seriously, we might be lost. I think we shouldve left like a trail of popcorn or something. 

 We cant be lost. Its an arena. Speaking of, theres . ! 

 ! 

 Hey. 

 So, is it starting? 

 Yeah, almost. 

 Well, excellent. Lets get in there, because I personally do not want to miss a single solitary second of... 

 No Doubt. Its on the t-shirt. 

 Right. No Doubt it is. So, lets go. 

 You know, would you mind going in ahead, and Audrey and I are just gonna have a little chat? 

 Yeah, absolutely. Girl time. Ill see you in there. 

 leaves them alone

 What? 

 I just wanted to tell you that I know about what happened with you and  

 ... I didnt know that you liked him so much. Like, I thought that you did, but I—

 I dont want to talk about this. I just wanted to let you know that I know. 

 begins walking away

 , no, seriously, wait. Lets--lets do talk about it. I dont know, yell at me, do something, just-- I deserve it. It was a mistake. Im sorry. It was a big mistake. 

 Yeah, it was a mistake. 

 So, then yell at me. 

 I dont want to yell at you. I dont have it in me to yell at you. You know, Ive been holding back lately because I actually had some sympathy for you. I thought, "Audrey-- shes just confused. Shes just messed up," but youre not. Youre just sad. 



 The No Doubt Concert. The band has begun playing and we see the crowd is packed. We  the back rooms of the Stadium, in an area that looks like the heating rooms. Eddie and Joey are walking back there, and they can hear that the concert has already begun.



Band playing Hella Good 



 Wouldnt now be a good time to admit that were lost? 

 Were not lost. 

 Eddie, we seem to be moving away from the music. 

 Oh, so what youre saying is you dont trust me. 

 Well, is there a reason I should? Have you done anything to demonstrate that youre in the least trustworthy? 

 Wow. Trust issues. I guess we are learning a few things about each other tonight, huh? 

 You mean youre learning things about me. 

 Ok, wait here. 

 Oh, no, youre not leaving me alone in this place. Im pretty sure Freddy Kruegers second home is right around the corner. 

 2 seconds, ok? 2 seconds, I swear. Im sorry, Jo, but youre just gonna have to trust me on this one. 

 Fine. 

He goes into a room and Joey follows him and looks through the door and sees him talking to some guy. When she notices him turn towards the door she quickly goes back to where she was before.

 Ok. Were all set. 

 So you gonna tell me whats going on now? 

The man that Eddie was talking to comes out.

Father Ok, you kids ready to go? 

 Uh, yeah. Joey, this is my dad. Dad, Joey. 

Father Yeah. Its-- its nice to meet you. 

 You, too. 

Eddies Father goes to lead them on, and Joey has a huge smile on her face as the follow him

 What? 

 Nothing. 



 Outside the No Doubt Concert. Dawson and  are standing outside waiting for someone trying to sell tickets.



 So how does this whole scalping thing work exactly? 

 I dont know. I figured if I stood here long enough with $600 in my hand, somebody would come up to us and mutter "tickets" under their breath. 

 Heh! Well, Im cold. Whered you get all that cash, anyway? 

 What, just because Im a glorified P.A., You think I cant afford to take my girlfriend to town every once in a while? 

 Oh, my god. You won the pool, didnt you? 

 Well... 

 No, wait. You fixed the pool. Youre a lot craftier than people give you credit for. You know, Im starting to think you had the right idea when you suggested bailing on this event. 

 Are you making me an offer I cant refuse, or are you just cold? 

 Um, both. Plus, datings for shmucks, and what were doing is much more fun. 

 What, sneaking around at work? 

 I thought you liked sneaking around at work. 

 Oh, I do, but were not fooling anybody. 

 Sure we are. Were fooling ourselves, which is what makes it all so incredibly dangerous. And sexy. And fun. 

they begins kissing and making out on the hood of a car, when a horse cop stops behind them.

Horse neighs 

 Oh, my god, its black beauty. Hey, boy! 

Cop You kids have any reason to be here, other than the obvious one? 

 Uh, no, sir. Well, yeah, actually, we do. We thought we had-- well, we did have tickets but—

Cop But you sold them? 

 No, we didnt-- we didnt sell them. It turned--they were for tomorrow, but we got the dates messed up. 

Cop And that explains why youre carrying such a large amount of cash on you? 

 Excuse me? 

Cop You have several hundred dollars there, son. 

 No--yeah, I do, but its-- its not for that, its for the—

 Me. Its for me. He was trying to short me, and I told him, "no way. "No way am I gonna do you in this parking lot for a penny less than $600." 

Cop Whats this, some kind of game to you, miss? 

 No, its not. Thats not what she-- look, I can-- I can explain this, really, I can. 

Cop And you will at the station. into his Walkie Talkie I need a check-by in the southwest corner, over.

 Youre arresting us? 

Cop No, Im taking you with me. If she say one more word, Im arresting you. 

 Cool! 

A cop car pulls up 

 Lets go. Child-like voice Bye, horsey! She grabs Dawson Come here.





 The No Doubt Concert. The Band is playing their second song to the crowd. Everyone is up and jumping to the music.  outside the seating area. Audrey comes out of the bathroom to find CJ waiting for her.



Band playing Underneath It All 



 Go away! 

CJ I need to talk to you. 

 Well, I dont want to talk to you. Dont you get that? It was a mistake, a gigantic mistake. 

CJ Why didnt you tell me you had a boyfriend? 

 Just leave him out of this, ok? 

CJ No, come here, come here. 

  

CJ Come here. 

 , Stop! 

CJ Yeah, well, hes in this, whether you like it or not. 

 Well, you know what? Hes not! He has nothing to do with it. 

CJ Ok, and the reason you came home with me the other night is because youre so overwhelmingly happy with him. 

 Ugh! 

CJ Im sorry. Im not trying to mess with your head here. I just--I like you, Audrey, and youre the only reason I came here tonight. 

 Well, then I guess that was your first mistake. 

CJ I know things are complicated, but you gotta understand that I havent felt like toward someone in a long time. 

 No, its been a long time since you had sex, and youre incredibly grateful because youre incredibly messed up, which shouldve been obvious from the second  met you, because generally, people who are into helping other people are about 10,000 times more messed up than the people theyre helping. 

CJ You know what? Youre probably right. But that doesnt change the fact that I like you. 

 You have got to stop this. I am sure that under there somewhere there is a nice guy, and you are obviously just trying to help me out, but what happened between us, its just-- its the way that the world works, ok? Pretty much all the time, girls run around and feel bad about themselves. Theyre either too weak or too stupid to go home alone. So, sometimes guys just win the lottery. Thats it. It doesnt mean anything. 

 comes out to find Audrey

 Hey, youve been gone a year. Whats going on? 

 Nothing. Im sorry. 

 You guys--you guys having a problem out here? 

 No. We barely know each other. 

CJ Yeah, right. 

 Excuse me? 

CJ Nothing. I just think if you took care of your girlfriend a little bit better—

 If I did what? 

 Nothing. He said nothing. Go away, 

CJ You really want me to leave you alone with this guy that makes you so miserable? 

 Yes. Now. 

 Is this a joke? Did he really just say that to me? 

 , Please, if what you said was true about me, about the other night, then you will just leave, walk away. 

 Wait. What about the other night? 

CJ And if I dont? 

 , Leave, now! 

CJ You really think youre gonna be happier with him than you obviously were with me? 

 decks CJ, and they get into a fight

 You guys! 

Security comes and pulls them apart.

Security Come on, break it up, break it up. Come on, break it up. 



Commercial Break



 The No Doubt Concert. The band is playing another song, while the crowd is screaming along to the music. Joey and Eddie are watching the Show from high up above the stage.



Band playing Magics in the Makeup 



 Youre dad seems nice. 

 He said four words to you, and he thinks your name is Josie. 

 I dont mind. 

 He is...nice. You know, he works hard, puts food on the table, doesnt cheat on my mom, solid, steady, always around. 

 Sounds more like the second coming. 

 Yeah. Yeah, hes just not too big on the encouragement front. Not real into higher education. 

 And that explains why you didnt go to college. 

 Oh, I went to college. 

 You did? Yeah. 

 Yeah, one semester. Dropped out. Things have to happen to you at the exact right time in your life, or theyre meaningless. 

 Meaningless? 

 Yeah. Like this. Like right now. I mean, this couldve happened yesterday and been meaningless. But its not, is it? 

 No, it isnt. 

Eddie and Joey intertwine their fingers



 Outside the No Doubt Concert. Emma and  are in the parking lot alone. Emma is sitting on the bumper of a car, while  is frantically pacing back and forth



 You just had to get us kicked out, didnt you? Couldnt possibly have waited till after the acoustical set? 

 Feel free to go back any time, because youre really not needed here. 

 Well, I did figure I might decrease the odds of another one in your group either having sex or possibly beating each other to a pulp. 

 You dont think I had the right to punch that guy? 

 Shes not your girlfriend anymore, mate! Not that it would make it ok even if she were. 

 He took advantage of her! He saw that she was messed up and he preyed on her, which in my books makes him one notch below pond scum. 

 Right, right, must be that, because women are such helpless idiots they couldnt possibly make an informed decision about who they sleep with, could they? 

 I know Audrey. This is not her. I cannot believe she would sleep with that guy. 

 Is it so difficult for you just to admit that she hurt you? Or that you might feel a little guilty about the way things ended, or that possibly, despite all your protestations to the contrary, that you still want to save this girl? 

 Of course, its difficult. It just is. 



 the No Doubt Concert. The parking garage.  is putting a bag of ice on Eddies swollen cheek.



 Would you quit squirming? Youre lucky Im even talking to you right now. 

CJ This is bringing you a great deal of satisfaction, isnt it? 

 No, actually, its not. 

CJ Youre not thinking to yourself right now that I deserve this? 

 No. You and Audrey are both adults, and I am not gonna sit here and apply some ridiculous double standard to the situation, just because my feelings got a little bit hurt. 

CJ Im sorry about that. I wish that hadnt happened. 

 Yeah, I know. You know, all that stuff that youve been saying is finally starting to sink in, all that stuff that youve been telling me about yourself, and I guess that if its true, then it probably really sucks to be you right now because no matter how nominally together you think you are, if your fondest desire is to start hanging out with Audrey, then chances are, its not gonna stay that way. And you know what? If I ever got it into my head to do what you do, you know, to help people, I would be a hell of a lot better at it than you are. 



 Outside the No Doubt Concert. Elsewhere in the Parking garage. Jack and David are walking together talking about the night.



 So you really dont mind taking Audrey home? 

 Well, sure, I mind, but, you know, my inner drama queen respects her refusal to come out of the bathroom till  and  leave. 

 Heh heh heh! Thanks, man. I just dont want to ditch , you know. I mean, I dont think this evening turned out quite the way she planned. 

 Hmm. Yeah. I know the feeling. 

 So, were, uh, not doing too well at this, are we? 

 Well, the hanging out has been good. But the dating? I think its safe to say that when two gay guys go on a date, and each ends up going home with a hot blond girl, somethings definitely not working. 

 Yeah. 



 Outside the police station.  and Dawson come outside and  hops on Dawsons back for a piggyback ride.



 Quick, make a break for it before he comes! 

 I cant-- I cant--you are still not taking this seriously. 

 We didnt get arrested. They just gave us a warning. 

 They gave us one phone call. 

 Ohh! They were having fun, like us. Oh, come on! This entire evening has been fun, from start to finish, and you know it. 

 Yes, this has been fun. Im starting to think you might be insane, but—

 but what? You havent ever gone out with an insane person before? 

 No, I have, just... not in a good way. 

 Mmm. 

they begin kissing and Todd comes storming out of the police station

Todd Ok, shag wits, to the car! Lets go! Chop, bloody chop! Or am I gonna have to throw cold water on you both? 

 I think hes mad. 

 Real mad. 

Todd For the record, never let it be said that Todd Carr is a man whos not in love with being in love. I think both my movies and my life reflect my deep and abiding commitment to getting two good-looking young people together and having a bit of fun now and again. However... as leery here bloody well knows... 

 Youre also a man whos in love with sleep. 

Todd To the car. Now. 

Both Suppressing laughter 

 Imitating Todd To the car. 

Both Heh heh heh! 



 The College Dorms. Eddie and Joey are walking up to the door of Joeys Dorm room.



 So...this is it? 

 Yeah. 

 Yeah. 

 Yeah. 

 End of the night. 

 Yeah.

 Heh heh. 

He reaches his hand out for her. Think he wants to shake hands, she takes his hand and then he pulls her over to a bench outside her dorm room. 

 So you never did tell me what yours is like. 

 My dad? 

 Yeah. Well, come on. I showed you mine. 

 Mmph. Lets just call him the opposite and leave it at that. 

 Opposite. As in not solid, not hard-working. 

 Um... hes a big fan of cheating on my mom. Um, hes definitely not the type to do some back-breaking job for 25 years when theres easy money to be made in the less law-abiding sectors of the economy. 

 You make him sound like a criminal. 

 Well, thats what the district attorneys call him. 

 Hmph.

 I still think of him as dad. 

 Wow. Well, you know, he mustve done something right. 

 Why? Cause I turned out so well? 

 What, you think being entombed in these hallowed halls equals turning out well? 

 Well, its a start, isnt it? 

 Im gonna have to do more work on you than I thought. 

 You think theres something wrong with these hallowed halls? 

 No. Not if youre here for the right reason. 

 Well, my dad... when he actually was around was very good on the encouragement part in that "dream-big, little-girl, you-can-be-anything you-want-to-be" sort of way. 

 I see. And what is it you want to be, little girl? 

 Hmph! I dont know. Guess Im a work in progress. 

They begins kissing

 Good night. 

 Good night. 

Eddie gets up and leaves and Joey watches him go, and the camera fades to black.

 The Movie set. The set has been made up like the set of Saturday Night Fever, with a lot of people dressed in 70s Clothing and disco dancing 

Disco music playing 

Todd All Right. And cut on rehearsal. 

 Here you go. 

Todd Oh, youre a bloody lifesaver. 

 All right, thats your fourth one today. Im thinking of staging an intervention. 

Todd Ever since a certain idiot assistant convinced me to quit smoking, Ive turned into some sort of cyborg-like eating machine. 

 Uh, I dont know, this isnt nicotine-Jones Todd, this is more like nervous-Todd. 

Todd Nervous-Todd? 

 One of the many faces of Todd. Theres drunk- and-belligerent-Todd, theres sober- and-belligerent-Todd, theres creepy/horny-Todd. The rarest of them all is sweet-Todd, but thats usually accompanied by hidden-agenda-Todd.

Todd Thanks for the abuse, mate. Truly. Spot-on. 

 You know... I find it depressing that even you are thrown into a tizzy just cause some guy is coming to shoot a cameo. 

Todd I seem to remember a certain assistant getting all hot and bothered simply transferring a call from A... Mr. Spielberg. 

 Ok, that was completely different. Spielberg is a cinema god.  Winter is just some lame movie star. 

Todd Yeah, well, that so-called lame movie star could do for this project what Janet Leigh did for psycho or Drew Barrymore did for scream. D-do you have any idea what we went through to book him, Dawson? Were extremely lucky it worked out, mate. 

 Todd Carr, you freakin genius! I finally get to work with you, and I get killed off in the first 15 minutes? 

Todd Fear not, me ol mocker, were bringing you back in the sequel as a flesh-eating zombie. 

Sounds great, but we gotta work around Spielberg. 

Todd Indeed. Indeed. 

 Hi. Im . 

 Hi. Dawson, Todds assistant. You--youre really gonna work with Spielberg? 

 Yeah, we finally worked out our schedules for this project. So, after we shoot, you guys gotta show me where to have some fun around here. What do you say, Dawson? 

 Sure. 

 And, uh, as for my co-star? 

Todd The lovely . 

 Yes. I will definitely need a word with her. I always like to, uh, get to know whoever Im working with. 

Todd Chuckles 

He looks from  to Todd and sees the angry look on Dawsons face.



Opening Credits



Commercial Break



 Hells Kitchen. Joey is sitting at the bar studying, when Eddie comes over to join her at the bar.



 Hey. 

 Hey. Did you just get here? 

 Yeah, 10 minutes ago. I didnt wanna disturb your studying. 

 Oh, you couldnt disturb me any more than this stupid song. Could you please kill whoever put this on the jukebox? 

 That would be me. 

 Oh. Sorry. It-its just Im trying to study, and its my last final, and its for s class, so, of course, theres a lot of ground to cover, and I wanna do really well, you know, and its-- its this song. I—

 So, why dont you just study at the library? 

 I tried. Its packed. There are people sitting on the floor in the bathroom of the library. 

 What about the dorm? 

 Too many parties. Most people are done with finals. When I left, they were having a naked slippy-slide down the hall. 

 Mmm. Mmm. 

 Ha ha. 

 Mmm. Ha ha. Well, you know, you could, you could go to my place. 

 Well, well, well. Sounds suspiciously like a lame attempt to get me into your bed, Mr. Doling. 

 Well, you may get in my bed, if you please, ms. Potter, but unfortunately for me, Ill be here. I work till close. But you can study as long as you want and just leave the keys under the mat when you go.

She quickly begins packing up all her books before he can even finish speaking

 You are amazing. 

 Well, you know. 

 The best. 

 Keys. 

 Thank you. The best. 

 Have fun. 



 Emmas Apartment. Emma is angrily cleaning the toilet, when  comes walking by the open door dressed for work. He stops and turns to talk to her.



 Under her breath Stupid male flat mate. Buggery wuggery wankery—

 Emma. There you are. Wow. May I say that you are looking ravishing today? 

 And yet I cant even see you because youre so transparent. What do you want, ? 

 Very intuitive of you. I do actually need a small favor. 

 Ok, but first I have a question for you as I sit here scrubbing up our collective filth. 

 Shoot. 

 Have you ever even heard of a toilet brush? 

 Yes. Its the little brush youre using to clean the toilet. 

She throws the toilet brush at him

 Ooh! Ow, ha ha, ok. All right, I--I deserve that. Thats fine. And that favor I was asking for, its not really a favor so much. Its really, uh, its like a proposition, which, I think youll have to agree with me, is a far more enticing word. 

 Spare me the sales pitch, , and get on with it. I have band practice in an hour. 

 Well, to outfit yourself for said proposition, which you have yet to hear the dazzling details of, you will be needing a new dress, and I am willing to take you to a house of high fashion and buy you said new dress, which will become your favorite dress. It will, in fact, become your head-turning dress, and it will only be complete when it is filled out, by you, tomorrow night at my big office party. 

 No. See, sitting in a fluorescent-lit office with a bunch of depressing, uptight suits getting drunk and pretending to be merry until one of them gropes me in the copy room sounds like a load of something, , but its certainly not fun. 

 It would actually be my guess that theyll turn off the fluorescent lights and go with those twinkly little string lights cause theyre cheery and its a holiday party. 

 And yet my answer is still no. 

 Ok, fine. Ill pay you 25 bucks. 

 So now Im a prostitute? 

 Laughs No, of course not. Ill make you a deal. I will clean this bathroom and wash those dishes for 2 weeks. 

 6 months! 

 What?! Scoffs One month. 

 2 months or no deal. 

 Oh, yeah. Youre tryin to play hardball. Uh-uh. 

He turns and walks away, but quickly returns

 Mumbling Ok, fine! Deal! 

 Laughs All right, well, I am gonna go to band practice. Ill be back later so you can buy me my new dress. See ya later. 



 s Trailer.  and Dawson are sitting together on the couch talking about things, including the new cameo actor .



 Oh, my god. Im gonna meet  Winter! Im gonna act with  Winter. 

 Hes got a lot of hair, that guy. 

 Im gonna kiss  Winter. 

Knock on door 

 Ah. 

 Hi. Im . 

 Uh-huh. 

 I believe were gonna be working together. 

 Uh-huh. 

 I was wondering if you wanted to run some lines. 

 Uh-huh. 

 Cool. 

 comes in and sees Dawson sitting on the Couch

 Oh, hello again. 

 Hey, . 

 Hey, if Im interrupting you guys, I—

 No. Sit. Run lines. Great. 

They begin going through lines in the script

 Ahem. "Theres a killer on the loose in this city, baby. "Streets arent safe for a girl like you." 

 "Im all woman and nobodys baby." 

He stops and turns to Dawson who has gotten up and headed to the other end of the trailer.

 Hey. Um... would you mind leaving us alone? You see, when Im rehearsing, I--I feel really... vulnerable. 

 Right, of course, Ill--Ill leave you guys alone. 

 Thanks. Dawson, right? 

 Right. 

 Thanks, Dawson. 

Dawson leaves



 The Dress Shop. Emma and  are shopping for a dress for Emma to wear to the party. Emma is going through the dresses, and  is getting impatient.



 What about this one? 

 Laughs That looks like something my grandmother would wear. 

 Its slit halfway up the thigh! 

 What can I say? My grans a sexy lady. 

 All right, look, weve been here for over an hour. Would you please just try on one? 

 I just dont see whats wrong with my regular clothes. 

 Your regular clothes are held together with safety pins. 

 Im cultivating a look. Called individuality. Ever heard of it? 

 And this is called Im buying you a free dress, so stop complaining. You ever heard of that? Now, just try these on, please. Thank you. 

 Emma groans 

 the dressing area.  waits outside as Emma tries on the dresses.

  I just--I dont see what the big deal is about some little office party. 

 You know, theres actually a small confession I should probably make about this little office party. Cause its not like your average typical office party. Its more of a, uh, s—

Emma comes out in a hot black dress, which stops  in the middle of his sentence.

 A what? 

 Damn. 

 I know. I look ridiculous. I feel ridiculous. 

 No, no. Thats it. Thats the dress. 

 Are you sure? Its $300. 

 Ok, well, then $300 it is because thats it. You look amazing, Emma. Youve got to wear that tomorrow night. 



 Eddies Apartment. Eddie comes home to find Joey asleep on his bed. He pulls the blankets up on to her, and then goes to sleep on the floor next to the bed.  the next morning, where we wee Joey still asleep in bed. The camera pans past the clock which reads 620am, and over to Eddie who takes a seat next to the bed with a cup of hot coffee, and he reaches over and brushes the hair off Joeys face, and whispers to wake her up.



 Whispering Joey. Joey. Hi. 

 Laughs See, I told you youd find a way for me to end up in your bed. 

 It was all part of my devilish plan. 

 I knew it. 

 Here. I know its early, but I didnt want you to miss your test. Do you know, I dont know your morning routine. Maybe you need some time to adjust to consciousness and all that. 

 Very considerate Mr. Dolling, but Im ready for it. I swear, I know this stuff so well, Im gonna set the curve. 

 I knew you could do it, tiger. 

she kisses him

 What was that for? 

 For calling me tiger. I kinda liked it. 

 Chuckles So, once you nailed the material, did you make good use of your private time in my humble abode? 

 What do you mean? 

 You know, looking for skeletons in closets, deep dark secrets hidden away in drawers. 

 Now, what kind of a person would do that? 

 Oh, all people. 

 All right. Just the medicine cabinet, and well discuss the dandruff shampoo later, but I practically tripped over your ice skates, whats that about? 

 Ah, I--I play hockey. 

 They were figure skates. 

 All right, so I may skate a little. You know, I happen to possess a certain masculine grace. 

 You think Im gonna let you get away with that one, huh? 

 Well, then I guess Im gonna have to figure out a way to keep you quiet. 

They begin kissing. When Joey stops them after a bit

 I have to tell you something. Now theres a sentence every guy loves to hear at moments like these. 

 Laughs No, its just, you know, um, Eddie, you know, Im--Im-- Sighs Im not the kind of girl who sleeps with a guy after only one date. 

 Really? Because I usually sleep with girls after only one date, like, at least once a week. 

 No. All Im saying is that... I have a certain pattern when it comes to sex. Um, long, protected, tension-filled waiting period. You know, full of dramatic buildup, you know, possibly lasting years—

 Joey, I wasnt, you know, expecting anything here. I dont mind taking it slow. 

 Thats nice, um, but, um, its not what I mean. See... I was sort of telling you about my pattern because... when I woke up this morning, I reached my arm across the bed kind of wishing that you hadnt taken the floor last night. And, um... I was lying here just trying to think of one reason not to break my tradition with you, right here, and I couldnt think of one. You can say something quick right now before I die of embarrassment. 

He kisses her.

 Hows that? Is that ok?

 Thatll do. Thatll do. 

Both laugh

They begin making out then go back onto the bed, begin making out, and he lies her down on the bed, and camera fades



Commercial Break



 Eddies Apartment Later on. Eddie and Joey are lying asleep in bed after having had sex, Joey wakes and looks into Eddies eyes as he awakes too.



 Hi. 

 Hi. 

 Would it be incredibly corny if I told you how beautiful you look right now? 

 Yes, and entirely inappropriate since I plan on never calling you again. 

 Well, ahem, then at least let me make you some French toast as a way of saying good-bye and best wishes. 

 Well, that could be arranged, but only if you help me study while we eat. 

 I think I could do that. How much time you have? 

 My exams at 900 and it was barely sunrise when you woke me up, so it cant be much later than that, right? 

 Yeah. Are you saying that a proper amount of time wasnt paid to a—

 Nothing like that. Let me see. reaches up and grabs the clock 1100! Oh, my god! Its 1100! 

 Wait. Are--are you sure? 

 How could you let me fall asleep? 

 I didnt. I mean, I did, you know, but we both sorta just passed out and it was nice. 

 It was nice? 

 Yeah, it was. Look, maybe Im more fond of spooning than the average guy. Ok, Im sorry I let you fall asleep, but I didnt know I had to be on Potter-watch. 

 Oh, and I suppose its my fault for not saying, "hey, Eddie, dont let me sleep through my monstrously important exam." Yes, it was a nice moment, but one we couldve had later on today before my life is ruined. How could I sleep here last night? What the hell was I thinking? 

 Ok, calm down. Ok? 

 I have one hour left in my 3-hour exam. Im 20 minutes away from campus, and youre telling me to calm down? 

 All right, come on. Look, Ill have you there in 10 minutes. Lets go. 

 All right, all right all right, all right. 



 Eddies Car outside the English building. The pull up and Joey begins to open the door even before the car is fully stopped.



 Joey, hey, Joey, Joey! 



She runs out ignoring him and goes into the class room, where everyone is already taking the test. She quickly takes a seat and opens the test.



Instructor Thats half-hour. You have 30 minutes to complete the exam. 



 s Workplace.  is sitting alone waiting for Emma, when Rich come over with an attractive woman in tow.



 Witter. Allow me to introduce the lovely Candace, my date for this evenings festivities. 

 Pleasure to meet you. 

Candace Likewise. 

 And where might your date be? 

 Shes on her way. 

 Hmm. 

Emma comes in. She has altered her dress by cutting it up and adding safety pins to accentuate it.

 Oh! God. Sorry. Hi, . I almost couldnt find you. Theres so many suits, its like looking for one individual cow in a whole field of em. Hi. Im Emma. 

 Hi. Rich Rinaldi. And this is Candace. What a fabulous dress. 

 Thank you.  bought it for me. I did have to make a few modifications, of course. I hope he doesnt mind. 

 Oh, no, no. Not at all. Um, could you two excuse us for just one second? Emma, may I have a word in private? Be right back. 

 Chuckles Uh-huh. 

He takes her into the conference room.

 What did you do to that dress? 

 You dont like it? 

 Like it? I spent $300 on it and I might as well have bought you a box of rags. 

 Rags? Are you kidding me? Feel this fabric. This is the good stuff. The kitchen shears went through it like butter. 

 I--I dont even know what to say to that. 

 I shall be by the punch bowl. If you like twirling me about, come find me. 



 The movie Set.  and  are shooting their  on the dance floor in the 70s disco party.



Disco music playing 

 So, do you want to talk all night or do you want to dance? 

 First things first, baby. 

They begins dancing really bad disco dancing

Todd And... cut! Beautiful! That was hot, guys! Loved it! Theyve got really good chemistry, didnt you think? 

 Uh, sure. Yeah. 

 Yeah. That last take was killer, huh? 

 I was totally in the moment. 

 Dawson who can hear them through the headset he is wearing

 Yeah, me, too. So, your boyfriend probably isnt too happy about me kissing you. 

 Oh, I dont have a boyfriend. 

 What about that guy from your trailer? Are you two—

 Who? Dawson? God, no, hes a P.A. 

 Thats cool. So do you wanna work on the dance moves again? 

 Sure. 

 Out...and back

We see Todd who is standing behind Dawson talking to some of the other crew members, but he is also wearing his headphones and heard everything too. Ho goes over behind Dawson and puts a comforting hand on his shoulder.

Todd Dawson. 

 Yeah. 

Todd Could you get me a cup of coffee, mate? 

 Sure.



 Outside s House. Joey goes up to the door and knocks.  comes and opens the door, and isnt surprised to see Joey there.



Doorbell rings 

 Oh, goodie, I was hopin it was you. 

 Im sorry to bother you at home. I went to your office and your classroom. I couldnt find you, and I really need to talk to you. 

 Yeah, no, I know, I was made aware of your situation through the 27 messages you left on my office voicemail. 

 Well, look, I studied for your test more than Ive ever studied for anything in my life. And you know how far Ive come in your class, its just that-- well, I lost track of time and—

 Gazing into the abyss of your future again? 

 Look, let me have a re-test. 

 No. 

 Look, I was up all night studying! I fell asleep and then I woke up early, before sunrise early, and then I fell back asleep, and I was disoriented, I wasnt even in my own—

 Wasnt even in your own what? 

 I wasnt even in my own room. 

 Look... it is your responsibility to get to the test on time, and since you couldnt get past question number one, thats an automatic "f," which brings your grade for the semester to a nice, healthy "D." So, you see, it-its not so bad. You still pass. Night, Potter. 

 Oh, professor , no matter how you feel about me personally, you cant be this vindictive. 

 All right, now, see, thats where youre wrong. This is not about vindictiveness. This is about rationality. I have to apply the same set of standards to all of my students or else Im really not being fair. Its nothin personal. Its a tough break, kid. I feel for ya.

 closes the good, and Joey just goes and sits on the steps of the porch and begins crying into her hands.



Commercial Break



 The Movie Set. The 70s Disco set.  is lying on the ground with fake blood all over his shirt, and  is kneeling next to him and crying. The rest of the people are standing all around them looking on. 



 I wont let you die. 

 Its too late for me, baby. Just promise me one thing. Keep on dancing. 

 Noooooo! 

Cut over to Dawson and Todd who are watching the shot through the monitor on the table in front of them.

Todd And...cut! That was beautiful! Check the gate! Thats a wrap on ! Lets all congratulate  on a job well done, yeah? 

Applause 

Todd And on schedule. Hate to lose you, mate. You did a fabulous job. 

 Ahh. I know. 

Todd Right. 

Todd and  walk off and  comes bouncing over to Dawson.

 Hey! 

 Hey. 

 So arent you gonna say anything about my performance? 

 Yeah, you were-- you were great. Youre always great. Youre a-- a real actress, . 

 Yeah, I was just ok, but isnt  amazing? 

 Yeah, hes really good. 

 Um, so, listen, I know we had plans to hang out tonight, but  sorta asked me to have a drink. You know, kind of a good-bye, nice workin-with-ya sorta thing. You can totally come if you want to. 

 You know what I just remembered? Uh, Todd wanted to go over the shot list for tomorrow. 

 Ok, but maybe I could come by later... after I get back? 

 Yeah, sure. 

 Great. Bye. 



 s Workplace. The party is going on, and Emma is eating a pig in a blanket, while  is eating a baby ear of corn, by nibbling the corn off rather than eating the whole thing.



 Laughs Oh, my god. You have to try one of these piggety blankety thingies, theyre amazing! 

 You obviously werent raised on em like I was. 

Emma looks at  as he nibbles away and begins snickering

 What? 

 Didnt you specialize in haute cuisine or some such nonsense before you became a raging sellout? 

 Your point being? 

 You can just chomp those things down there, . 

 Oh, sure, but then Id lose the comic effect, and itd be far less charming. 

 Oh, I see. This is your dating schtick, is it? How you nibble delicately on that petite corn. 

 This isnt workin for ya? 

 Laughs Very dainty. 

 Ok, now, admit it. You are having fun. 

 Oh, I admit nothing, I am simply giddy on all the free food. 

 And your charming and chivalrous date, of course. 

 Ah, dont get any ideas on me, . 

 Oh, Im not. Im just sayin. 

Rich comes over to join them again

 Hey, Emma, right? That is a great dress. 

 Thank you. 

 Its just so stylish and unique, what--with what you did with all the pins. 

 Oh, I see. Youre taking the piss, arent you? 

 Im sorry? 

 Taking the piss. Having a laugh at my expense cause you think my dress is stupid and youre a small-minded jerk whos no doubt... small in other areas as well. 

 Laughs Emma, do you want to go use the dance floor? 

 Wow. She dances, too. Well, youre practically a member of Fagans gang, arent you?

 How delightfully condescending of you, dick. 

 Rich. 

 I know. Now, tell me, when you woke up this morning and picked your little outfit, did you think, "hmm, I want to look like a money-grubbing schmuck with no imagination," or is that just a happy accident? 

 Well, thats one of lifes little mysteries were just not gonna solve tonight, so, shall we? 

 Keep your mouth shut, Witter. Your special friend here is doing British accent A splendid job ruining your image all by herself. 

 You know what? Im going to go to the loo before I say something  regrets. 

She leaves them

 Oh, oh, oh, Witter. 



 Hells Kitchen. Joey comes somberly into the bar, and Eddie grabs her apron from behind the bar and hands it to her. She half-heartedly takes it from him.



 Thanks.

 So Ive been thinking... its gonna be ok. I mean, all you gotta do is talk to , reason with him. Im sure--Im sure hell understand. 

 I tried, actually. Um...surprisingly, he doesnt care. Thats it. Im gonna lose my scholarship. Its over. 

 Well, lets not get melodramatic. 

 Melodramatic? 

 Im--Im just saying relax, you know? I think maybe youre having a little worst-case-scenario freak-out here. Maybe youre forgetting the bigger things at hand. 

 Oh, what exactly is bigger than my getting kicked out of college? 

 You see? Youve already escalated from losing your scholarship to getting kicked out of school. You just take all this stuff way too seriously. 

 Oh, and I guess what Im learning about you is that you dont take anything seriously. 

 No, I just try to pay attention to the things that matter. 

 And what matters to you, Eddie, because to me, Worthington is kind of a ride out of a previously lacking existence! You know, I dont know what your dreams are, so I dont know how to explain it to you. It-- you know, come to think of it, I dont really know anything about you at all. 

 Well, I dont know. Youre usually pretty good at assuming things about me. 

 Yeah. Everything I think about you, Ive pretty much strung together through flimsy assumptions. 

 Well, maybe your powers of deduction are particularly strong. 

 You know what? Maybe I should have just stuck to my original pattern. 

 Oh, yeah, because that was making you so happy. 

 Well, at least I knew what I was getting myself into. Everything new I try just seems to backfire. 

 Thats how people grow up, Jo. They learn from their mistakes. 

 Yeah, well, I guess what Im learning is that avoiding Joey Potters path less taken is probably the smarter way to go. 

 Look... Im sorry you missed your test... but I dont want what happened last night to be a mistake to you. But I guess it was. 



 The womens bathroom. Emma is in one of the stalls while two women are out by the mirror, primping and talking to each other.



Woman 1 I got this one in the bag. 

Woman 2 I dont know. Im lookin pretty hot tonight

Woman 1 hey, how about that punk freak? What is she even doing here? 

Woman 2 I dont know. Did you get a load of her accent? Its totally fake. 

Woman 1 I know, and I heard she was really rude to rich. 

Emma comes out to join them

 Why shouldnt I be? Hes a little wanker. 

Woman 1 Yeah, but dont you want to win? 

 Win what? 

Woman 2 You mean you dont know what this partys really about? 

 Im sorry. What are you talking about? 

Woman 2 Its a contest. The guy with the hottest date wins 1,000 bucks. 



 s workplace party.  is waiting for Emma to come back, and rich comes walking over to join him.



 Wheres your sassy pseudo-punk, Witter? I was hoping for another round. 

 Well, surprisingly, she doesnt want to be here right now. And I cant say that I really blame her. 

 Then why have you been wolfing down the empanadas all night? 

 The way you treated her was unnecessary, rich. Emmas not the girl whos gonna play down to your outdated stereotype of the lesser sex. In fact, shes probably the most eloquent and passionate person Ive met in a long, long time, and she has far too much grace to be lowering herself to your playing field. 

 That was beautiful, Witter. Im sorry your poignant outburst was wasted on me. 

 Thats not a problem. Ive wasted the better part of my evening playing this pathetic game. 

 If you consider this such a waste of your time, we could remedy that come Monday morning. Its all well and good, this back and forth, but what you seem to have forgotten or what you actually never learned is that Im your boss. Youre not precious to me. In fact, youre on thin ice. You watch it when you open your mouth up to me, Witter. Im not your friend. Im the guy whos in charge of your future, which is currently bleak. So well—



 The Hotel bar. Dawson and Todd are going over the shot list while having a few drinks.



Todd Then well do that bit where shes in the shower. And then were done. 

 Cool. 

Todd So speaking of, what are you two lovebirds up to tonight? 

 Nothing. Nothing. Shes, uh--shes out... with . 

Todd I see. And so youre... 

 Sitting here thinking of ways I could kill him. 

Todd Productive. 

 I dont know what Im doing, Todd. This isnt like me. I... she lied about our relationship, and I heard her on the headphones. I had a chance to confront her about it, and I didnt. And now shes out with him. Shes actually out with him right now, and I didnt say a word about it. So what the hell am I doing? 

Todd Youre doing whats smart. Look... if you confront her on a little white lie, the likelihood is shell get mighty upset that you were eavesdropping, and thats it for you and your shagging privileges for the rest of the shoot. I say ignore it. I say ignore it and just try and enjoy the rest of the time you have together. Look, you may very well be the love of s life. But sadly, you dont affect her next movie offer, plain and simple. So I say just forget about it. No big thing. 

 So thats your advice? Just sweep it under the rug like nothing happened? 

Todd Yeah, that is my advice, you cheeky bugger. 

 Thats terrible advice. 

Todd And yet good advice if you want to keep shagging . 

 Arrgh! I wish she didnt have this power over me. Its like--sometimes I look at her and I... I forget my own name. Its like all I can think about is—

Todd sex? 

Everyone in the bar heard him, and turned to stare at them.

 Yeah. 

Todd You see? And they know that. And thats how they walk all over us. 

 Technically, isnt it you that does the walking all over in these situations? 

Todd Oh, Ive been trod upon. Believe you me. Dont even get me started. 

 Yeah, Im just gonna be direct with her. I cant--Im not gonna make myself crazy over this. Ive always been honest with people. 

Todd Yeah. Let me know how that works out for you. 

 I cant think about this anymore. 

Todd Right. Why think when we can drink? Uh, barkeep, 2 shots of whiskey, and bring Dawson whatever he wants. 



 Hells Kitchen. Joey is serving food to a table, and turns to a table to get their order, and finds that  has taken the seat, and is waiting for her to take his order.



 Can I take your order? 

 Ill take a burger and a beer--a Guinness, please. And Id like a pickle on the side, please, and a glass of water, if you dont mind, with ice—

 Can I ask you a question?

 Sure. 

 How can you sit there and order from me and pretend like nothing happened? Why are you even here? Are you--are you trying to torture me? Is that it? 

 Oh, first of all, that was, like, 4 questions, but no matter. The answer to your first question, how can I just sit here and order from you like nothing happened is twofold. A--from my perspective, not much really did happen. And b--Im hungry. It didnt even occur to me that it had anything to do with you. 

 No, just my paltry little life which has come crashing down all around me, thanks to you. 

 Thanks to who now? 

Joey goes to put his order in

 Hey, wait, wait, wait, Joey. You know what? I changed my mind. 

Joey turns back with a semi-smile coming across her face

 I dont want French fries. I really feel like onion rings. 

She storms off, and Eddie comes out from behind the bar to confront him.

 Professor . 

 Great, great, great. Ok, now, let me guess. Uh, youre the knight in shining armor, and Im the evil dragon in this little play we seem to be doing. 

 Look, you have to give her another chance. It wasnt her fault. It was my fault. I made her late for the test. 

 Look, Eddie, if that even is your real name, I dont care. I dont care how much she studied. I dont care how sorry she is. I dont care how great the sex was. Youre wasting your breath, kid. Go get a kitten out of a tree or something. 

 What is your problem, man? I mean, cant you try to be human for once? 

 Tell me, just where do you think this little relationship with you and Joey is going, anyways? 

 I really dont think thats any of your business. 

 Cause, you know, I have an idea. And believe me, its not gonna be a pretty picture. Ms. Potter is--well, her performance on todays exam notwithstanding-- a gal whos going places, as they say, places that you will not be going, Eddie. Places you can never hope to go. Dont tell me it doesnt make you just a little crazy knowing that shes actually got the life that you tried to fake for yourself. I mean, who knows? Maybe you lured her to your apartment on purpose, right? Tried level the playing field, maybe? Not gonna work, though, Eddie. We can see Eddie getting angry, and balling his hand into a fist. Shell still see right through you. Shell still leave, and youll still be trapped right here. You know, its a really good thing you look so cute in that little apron of yours, cause—

He decks  with one punch, and storms out of the bar. Joey has seen this and is happy, she watches him go, and simply walks over to s table with a smile on her face and drops the tray on the table.

Slams tray down 



Commercial Break



 Outside Hells Kitchen. Joey is waiting outside when Eddie comes out of the bar. Joey is sitting on the hood of his car waiting.



 Hey. 

 Hey. 

 What are you doing? 

 Sitting here waiting for you. 

 Oh. Well... I just got fired. 

 Im sorry. 

 Well,  agreed not to sue, so, no, its not so bad. 

 Eddie, look, I am... so sorry about before. 

 Joey, Joey—

 No, its just that-- I tend to—

 No. You dont have to. I understand. And Im sorry I called you melodramatic. 

 Well... I do tend to escalate things, and you do tend to downplay them. But... somewhere in the middle, something about us still makes sense. If I hadnt overslept and messed things up with , I never would have seen this new side of you. 

 So the Potter path less traveled, not so bad? 

 A rocky start, maybe, but its kind of nice here. You got a great right hook there, slugger. 

He kisses her

 What was that for? 

 For calling me slugger. I kinda liked it. Hey, Ive got an idea-- something we can do to take our minds off all this. 

She gets a twinkle in her eye and a smirk on her face.

 No. Not that, dirty girl. Something else to take our minds off all this. Come on. 

Laughing 



 The hotel. Dawson is going to his room, and sees  leaving s room, and  walking him out.



 ...So good. 

 Oh, . 

 Oh, my god. I love her. Shes got 1/16 of the sexual presence that you have. 

 closes the door, and Dawson continues walking down the hall and walks past  as he leaves

 Hey, man. 

Dawson goes into his room and there is a knock on the door shortly after he closes it

Knock on door 

 Hey, Im glad youre here. I missed you. 

Yeah. You have fun? 

 It was kind of boring. 

We had a drink, and Ive been watching TV in my room ever since. But Ive been thinking about you all night. She begins kissing him, and he doesnt respond Dawson, come on. Im standing in front of you asking to come in. Are you honestly gonna send me out into the cold, cold night all by myself? 

He warms up and begins kissing her back. He closes the door and the camera fades



 Emmas Apartment. Emma is sitting in the couch in her robe, when  comes in and takes a seat next to her on the couch.



 What happened to you? 

 I left. 

 I noticed that. Without saying good-bye or letting me know. Look, if this is about rich, you really shouldnt pay that guy any mind. Hes just a moron. Emma. 

 So did I win, then? 

 What? 

 I said, did I win, then? 

 What are you talking about? 

 Yeah, probably not. There was, like, 20 girls there that were way hotter than me, right? 

 Somebody told you about the contest. 

 Pretty sharp there, . 

 All I can say is that Im sorry. Theres no noble speech I can give you. I just screwed up royally, and I apologize. I took the spineless, corporate route, and...somewhere along the line, I guess I just forgot that I had a choice. 

 You always have a choice, . 

 True enough, though in that office, it doesnt always feel like it. 

 So did I win, then? I dont understand why you even take me there, . You knew exactly what that contest was about. Were you trying to humiliate me or—

 no, god! No, Emma, I took you to that thing because I thought you would win. You were by far the most beautiful woman in that room, and Im not taking a piss or whatever it is you crazy English people say. 

 Youre not? 

 No, not at all. Just for me to be there with you was 10 times the prize I was ever gonna get from those... soulless corporate freaks that I work with. So I am--Im sorry. 

They begins kissing each other, but they both hear the door and quickly go to separate ends of the couch. Jack comes into the room, and sits down on the couch between them and begins eating the sandwich he is carrying.

 Hey, guys. 

 Hey, jack. 

 Seen the remote? 

 Here. 

 Oh, thanks. 



 Some weird Control Panel. Eddie opens the control panel and begins hitting various keys on the pad.



 Whats going on, Eddie? Im starting to get a little freaked. 

The lights in the room turn on and some music begins playing. Joey turns to realize that they are at a Hockey rink and they are all alone.

 I cant believe your dad got us here like this. This is so cool. 

 Oh, the Dolings have connections. 

 Irish mafia--I knew it. 

They begin skating. Eddie is skating circles around Joey

 You wanna know what else? 

 What else? 

 You do possess a certain masculine grace. 

 Yes, I told you. 

 Very nice. 

 Yes. 

 Come here. Come here. Thank you for this... for everything. 

 Its my pleasure, Joey Potter. 

 Come on! 

 Ok. Ok, skate backwards now. 

 Backwards? 

 Yes. No, thats forwards. 

 Thats my spin.

 A toy store window. The camera is panning across a miniature city they have set up in the window. The camera goes from building to building and finally pans out to see Joey looking in the widow at the display with Eddie.

 Voice Over Once upon a time in a galaxy not entirely unlike our own, there was a girl. There was nothing extraordinary about this girl. She was by her own estimation a relatively simple sort, yet she was cursed. For as long as she could remember, her romantic life had been something of a disaster. Boys either fell too hard, too fast, or not at all. She had long since given up on the notion of a functional relationship, which is why, in the winter of her 19th year, she was surprised to find herself in the company of a boy who made her feel as if the curse had been lifted... if only temporarily. 

 Joey humming Heh heh he so...chocolate or vanilla? 

 Chocolate. 

 Cake or pie?

 Pie. 

 Coke or Pepsi? 

 Coke. 

 Christmas or Halloween? 

 Halloween. 

 That settles it. We have nothing in common. 

 Well, the sex is good. 

 Please, I had better sex in elementary school. 

 Ok. Are we done with this months Cosmo compatibility test? Can we just get on with our lives? 

 M! Not so fast. I have one more question. 

 Ok, shoot. 

 Christmas in Boston in your squalid little apartment or Christmas in Capeside with yours truly? 

 Heh heh. 

 I just said that out loud, didnt I? 

 Yeah, pretty much. 

 Wow. I just crossed a line into that world where girls pressure their boyfriends into doing stuff with them, and then-- I just referred to you as my boyfriend. Im a mess. I apologize. 

 Apology accepted. 

 You know... actually... Eddie, I take that back. I want you to meet my dysfunctional family. I want you to help me convince my retarded sister that we should buck tradition and throw out our stupid fake Christmas tree and get a real one for a change. Is--is that wrong? 

 Ok. First of all, I have a dysfunctional family all my own, so I wont be celebrating with a TV dinner under a bare bulb, if thats what youre worried about. And second-- I dont know if its such a good idea at this juncture. 

 What juncture is that? 

 Well, the juncture of too much and too soon. 

 Were even, then. 

 What does that mean? 

 Giggles It means that clearly Im a typical girl and, based on what you just said, youre very much a typical guy. 

 Hey, you know, meeting the familys a huge deal, especially this time of year. I mean, Id probably have to put on some kind of a sweater. You know, like a holiday sweater. And I gotta tell you, I hate sweaters. I look stupid in sweaters. 

 I bet you look very nice in sweaters. 

 All right, pencil me for presidents weekend. Ill be there. I promise. 

 Fine. But dont think were ever having sex again. 

 Heh heh heh! 

 What? 

 What a typical girl, using sex as a weapon. 

 Shut up. 

 Youre very pretty. Have I told you that? 

 Sucking up will get you nowhere. 



Opening Credits



Commercial Break



 Joey and Audreys dorm room. Joey is packing a bag, when Audrey comes into the room and surprises Joey who wasnt expecting her.



 Allow me to count the ways in which I suck. 

 What happened? 

 I missed my flight, which, to the best of my knowledge, only happens in the movies, but apparently not. Apparently, it can happen in real life, too, especially when you spend too much time in the airport bar letting creepy Willy Loman types buy you drinks. 

 Isnt it a little early to be knocking em back, Audrey? Even for you? 

 Drinking doesnt count on days when you fly. You know, I always have to get sauced to fly the friendly skies, you know. It helps keep the voices down in my head that tell me Im seconds away from plummeting to my death. 

 I dont know, Audrey. You better be careful. You might be spending the next semester in rehab. 

 No, rehab, rehab is for quitters. 

 Ok, so whats the plan? 

 Well, I couldnt get another flight out until tomorrow. Christmas on a plane. Whoo, mama. 

 So why dont you come home with me? 

 No. Really, I cant. Ill be fine. 

 Audrey, Im not letting you spend the majority of Christmas day drunk on an airplane with a motley assortment of sad travelers. 

 To tell the truth, it sounds way better than intruding on someone elses holiday. 

 Look, you wouldnt be intruding on anyones holiday. Trust me. Dawsons mom is inviting everyone to Christmas dinner, which...sounds like a recipe for disaster, but at least well all be together. 

 I dont know, Joey. Ok, it seems like the only thing that I have accomplished this semester is alienating everyone. You know, and now, all of a sudden, Im your friggin Christmas charity case. And lets not forget the fact that Ive already done the Capeside thing, and quite frankly, it was a stultifying bore. 

 Well, youre preaching to the choir on that one, but youre still coming with me. 

 I dont know. 

 My fathers gonna be there. 

 Can I ask him about prison? 

 If you want. 

 All right, you talked me into it. 

 Itll be fun, I promise. 

 All right. Better be. 

 Ill be back. 

Joey goes into the bathroom, and Audrey grabs a bottle of alcohol out of her bag and takes a quick swig



 Outside the Witter Household.  comes pulling up to the house in a new BMW convertible. Doug is outside and sees her, and is surprised to see that it is  driving.



Doug , is that you? 

 Merry Christmas, Dougie. 

Doug Yeah, right back at ya. Now, if you wouldnt mind, could you tell me what you did with my little brother? 

 I murdered that punk and stuffed his body into a dumpster behind the red lobster in Centerville. 

Doug Yeah, good to know. Well, you look, uh... 

 Hip, handsome, hetero? 

Doug I was gonna slick, sleazy, and smarmy, but sure. 

 Ok. Your sexuality, on the other hand, is just as dubious as ever. Good to see that some things never change, Doug. 

Doug What happened to the mustang? 

 It made for a most excellent trade-in. Opens the trunk and it is full of gift. And, uh, you think you can give me a hand with all this stuff? 

Doug Jeez, ! Dont tell me somebody actually had the poor sense to give you a credit card? 

 Well, you seem to forget, man, I actually work for a living. 

Doug Oh, right. So you finally bailed on the cooking thing and got yourself a nice little crack cocaine franchise. 

 If only it were that glamorous. No, Im a working stiff much like yourself. Except for that when you go home at night and you have the nice warm satisfaction of knowing youve made the world a better place, I just have a big, fat stinking wad of cash. Aint life grand? 

Doug Ha ha ha! 



 Dawsons House. Dawson is decorating the tree, when  leans over and plants a huge kiss on him.



 What was that for? 

 Must you question my every impulse, my every romantic whim? If you must know, it was simply a thank you. 

 For what? 

 Oh, for taking me deep in the heartland for an old-school American Christmas, for introducing me to your mother, who I must say is quite a trip, and for just being you. Is a lucky girl, Dawson. 

 Did my mom ever stop grilling you? 

 Not so much, no. I think shes curious about my intentions. 

 Whatd you tell her? 

 Well, I said, aside from banging in the new year with her one and only son, I didnt much know or care. 

 Nicely put. 

 Mm-hmm. 

 Heh! Do you think shes safe in there with Todd? 

 Oh, I dont think anyones safe from a drunk and horny Todd. Ill go pry them apart. 

 Thank you.

She goes into the kitchen and Gale comes out to join Dawson

Gale Ah, well, that  is a trip. 

 Thats, uh, one way of putting it. 

Gale So, uh, whats the deal with you two? 

 Whatever do you mean, mother? 

Gale Well, is it serious? Is she like your girlfriend, or is this some kind of casual sex thing? 

 Ok, first of all, thats disgusting. Thats--second, I have no idea. I dont know. Im in a relationship, and I have no idea where its headed or how to define it. 

Gale Hmm. And thats ok with you? 

 I dont really have a choice in the matter. Its just... 

Gale What, the way they do things in California? 

 Uh, yeah, apparently. 

Gale Hmph. Well, if someone had told me the day would come when my son would be bringing home his movie star girlfriend and some big-time director for Christmas, I wouldve laughed in their face. 

 Yeah, me too, probably. 

Gale You know whod get a kick out of this, dont you? Your father. 

 Yeah. God, hed have loved it.

Gale Although I dont think hed enjoy watching your boss hit on me. 

Todd and  come into join them. Todd is carrying a tray of the eggnog he made.

Todd Now snag your eggnog. 

Gale Ill take those. 

Todd Me mums favorite recipe. Here, get some of that down ya. Dawson takes a swig, and sees that Todd has really spiked the eggnog Bloody hell, Leery, didnt I teach you how to drink better than that? 

Gale Uh, well, if youll excuse me, I have to go check on our dinner. 

 Do you need any help, Mrs. Leery? 

Gale Uh, no, but you could keep me company, and you can tell me all about working with  Winter. Is he like beautiful in person or... 

Gale and  go into the kitchen

Todd Speaking of all things beautiful, your moms quite a handsome woman Leery. Do you mind if I have a go at her? 

 What? 



 A montage of s. First is Dawson, Gale, Lilly, Todd and  sitting in the living room by the fireplace. Next is  and Grams in Church sitting alone together. Followed by the Potter B&B. Joey, Bessie, Alexander, Mr. Potter, and Brodie are all sitting by the fireplace and setting up the Christmas tree and moving gifts around. Audrey is watching them, while she sits alone by the window. She looks outside into the darkness. 



 Joeys bedroom. Joey is asleep in bed, when Alexander comes running into the room, and begins trying to shake Joey awake



Alexander Auntie Jo, Auntie Jo. Its Christmas.

 Unh. Alexander. Honey, I know youre excited and all, but its way too early to open gifts. 

Alexander Noooo. 

Continues to shake her

 Oh, be nice to auntie Joey. Shes very tired. Her crazy friend Audrey kept her up all night. 

Mr. Potter comes into the doorway, and stands there looking at them, and then Alexander runs off into the other room.

Mr. Potter Joey. 

 I know. Coming. What does a girl have to do to get some sleep around here? 

Mr. Potter Well, merry Christmas, to you, too, sweetheart. 

 Oh, sorry, dad. Merry Christmas. Well, I guess we should get to it, then. Hell hath no fury like a 4-year-old on Christmas morning. 

Mr. Potter Not so fast. Theres someone waiting for you at the door. 

 Well, who is it? 

Mr. Potter I dont know. If I were you, I wouldnt keep him waiting much longer. He looks a little nervous. 

She gets up, and Mr. Potter leaves. She reaches over and grabs a sweater and heads to the front door, taking notice of the fake Christmas tree on the way. She opens the door to see Eddie standing outside next to his car. As she walks out onto the porch she sees that he has a real tree tied to the top of his car, and a huge smile crosses her face.



Commercial Break



 The Potter B&B. Audrey is in the bathroom going through the medicine cabinet, then closes it, and looks at herself in the mirror and takes another swig from her now almost empty bottle of alcohol. She then heads out into the front room where she finds Mr. Potter. We can tell in the way that she is talking that she is already drunk.



 Sighs Nobody likes you. You are a loser. And dont forget it. 

She heads out into the front room.

 Hey! Wheres Tony and Maria? 

Mr. Potter Out on the porch. 

 Ohh. Ditched for the boyfriend yet again. 

Mr. Potter What do we know about this guy, Audrey? 

 Hmm. Chip on his shoulder, blue on his collar. I dont know. Joey seems to like him. 

Mr. Potter Is it serious? 

 Oh, well, like a heart attack, because you see, Eddie seems to be able to incorporate all the best elements of  and Dawson, so its like the t-1000 of love interests. 

Mr. Potter Interesting. 

 Quid pro quo, Mr. Potter. What can you tell me about prison? 



 Outside on the porch. Joey and Eddie are outside and Joey is wrapped up in Eddies Arms, as they look at the sites talking together.



 I was right, you know. 

 About what? 

 You do look very nice in a sweater. 

 Yeah, well, I still hate em. 

 So what made you change your mind? 

 I missed you. 

 I missed you. Well, you can go now. I wouldnt want you to be at the critical juncture of too much too soon for too long. 

 Oh, shut up. Come here. 



Mr. Potter Ahem. 

 Heh heh heh. Hi, dad. 

Mr. Potter Your sister needs some help in the kitchen. 

 I thought thats what Brodie was for. Oh. Are you gonna be ok out here? 

 Well, as long as your father promises to go easy on me. 

Mr. Potter Ill be gentle, I promise. 

 Im ok. 

 Ok. 

Joey goes inside leaving them alone. You can see the tension in the air.

 Ahem. Its beautiful out here, huh? 

Mr. Potter Yeah, it is. So, uh, tell me about yourself, Eddie. 

 Sure. What do you want to know? 

Mr. Potter Uh... where do you go to school? 

 I dont, actually. 

Mr. Potter You graduate? 

 No. I never really went. College and I, it never really took, you know. 

Mr. Potter Yeah, I see. So, what do you do for a living? 

 Well, Im actually in between occupations at the moment. I was tending bar for a while, but that didnt work out. So I guess now Im just take some time off, you know, figure out my next move. 

Mr. Potter I see. 

 Hey, you know, your daughter is great, Mr. Potter. 

Mr. Potter Yes, she is. 



 Dawsons Bedroom. He putting some of his clothes away, and begins looking at the pictures of the gang on his wall, when  comes into the room.



Door opens 

 Your mom is in the kitchen, your little sister is napping, Todd is passed out in the living room, and the rest of the guests arent due to arrive for about another hour. Lets go, Dawson. You got work to do. 

She throws him down on the bed and climbs on top of him

 Where are we going? 

 To heaven and hell and back again. Were gonna have sex in your childhood bedroom, a place where youve probably only had sex with yourself. 

 Is it that obvious? 

 Doesnt take a rocket scientist. 

 Heh heh heh. The thought of doing it in this room doesnt creep you out just a little bit? 

 Hell, no. Turns me on. Lets go, citizen. 

She begins kissing him and moving her way down his neck, but stops when Dawson is just lying there.

 Sighs Whats wrong with you? 

 Nothing. 

 Im not sensing the appropriate degree of enthusiasm. I dont seem to have your full attention here. Is it the whole childhood bedroom thing? Because I just thought that would add a nice splash of kink to the proceedings, but we dont have to do it. 

 No, its not that. 

 Then what is it? 

  winter. 

 Well, no wonder youre not here with me, then. Youre not supposed to be thinking about hunky matinee idols, Dawson. You trying to tell me something about your orientation, perhaps? 

 You know what Im talking about. 

 Sighs Yes, I do. And while your jealousy is sweet and all, you have nothing to worry about.  Winteris long gone. 

 You lied to me. 

 What are you talking about? 

 You lied to me. You said you were alone in your room watching TV. 

 Yeah. 

 I saw him leave your room. 

 So whats your point? 

 My point is it bothers me. Ok, look, I--I--I thought I could play the game and just keep my mouth shut, but I cant, ok? Thats not who I am. I need to know what the hell were doing. 

 Were having fun, Dawson. At least... thats what I thought we were doing. 

 Thats crap. If it was just fun, you wouldnt have been so upset when you found out about Joey.

 Well, I was just being dramatic. 

 Come on. I dont believe that for a second. 

 Believe it. Its all about ego, Dawson. No girl wants to be dumped by some guy that shes embarking on a fun little fling with, especially when hes the directors assistant. 

 So thats what this is to you-- is some fun little fling. 

 Ugh! Are you on your period right now, Dawson? 

 I just wasnt clear before, but now I am. You--I get it. You get some perverse little thrill out of screwing the help. 

 You know what? Heh. You crack me up, Dawson, because you stand here and you say these incredibly noble, incredibly self-aggrandizing things about how you dont want to play the game, when the truth is you brought me home for Christmas, and you cant tell me that you dont get some kind of perverse thrill out of showing me off to your friends and family. Its really quite a shame, Dawson, because theyll be a day when youre old and gray and not even the Viagras doing it for you anymore, and you couldve looked back fondly on that time you banged the living daylights out of that actress in your childhood bedroom while she still had her looks. But I guess thats what you get for thinking with your brain when you really should be thinking with your-- well, I think you know. 

Door slams shut 



Commercial Break



 Outside Dawsons House later that night. Joey and Eddie come walking up to the porch.



 Thank you. 

 Youre welcome. So, this is the guy from the no doubt concert whos also the same guy from the movie set? 

 Dawson. Yeah. 

 Dawson. Right. Yeah, and why are we here again? 

 Is it gonna be all right for you? 

 Yeah, I got no beef with the guy, and if hes got beef with me, you know, I think I could take him. 

 Well I dont think itll come to that, but its good to know. 

 The question is, Jo, is that will it be weird for you? 

 Well, yeah. I mean, thats just the way it is. Thats the way itll always be, but look, dont worry. Were gonna have a nice, civil Christmas dinner, and then were out of here. 

 What, no dessert? I do like pie, you know. 

 As I recall. I was hoping we could find some time to be alone tonight. 

 Yeah, well, you know, I have to spend some own time with my family, you know, but I was thinking maybe—

 Id love to. 

 You dont even know what I was gonna say. For all you know, you could be agreeing to an act of sexual congress. 

 So you werent asking me to come home with you. 

 No, I am. 

 Well, like I said, I would love to. 

 Cool. And I promise my family will be a lot less intimidating. 

 What do you mean? 

 Nothing. Its just, you know, is your dad always so hard on prospective suitors? 

 Why? What did he say to you? 

 Nah, Im just teasing. Forget it. 

 Im not gonna forget it. Eddie, if my dad was rude to you, I want to know about it. 

 You know what? He wasnt rude at all. He seems like a really great guy. 

They go inside.



 Outside Dawsons House.  and Doug comes pulling up to the house, and Doug is driving. They stop the car, and stay inside it talking to one another.



Doug Chuckles Sweet ride, . Thanks for the test drive. 

 Any time. Isnt the navigation system amazing? 

Doug Yeah, youre right. Its amazing. 

 Hey, do you think dad liked his palm pilot? Cause he didnt really seem all that excited. 

Doug Well, I think he was a little overwhelmed, Pace. I think we all were. 

 Hey, theres one other thing I wanted to give you. He pulls a box out of the glove compartment I didnt want to break it out in front of the whole family, but check it out. 

Doug , you have been extremely generous. I dont need anything else. 

 Oh, come on. Open it up. Youre gonna like it. 

Doug opens it to see a very expensive watch inside.

Doug Exhales Pace, this--this is above and beyond. 

 Yeah, and, you see, now you can get rid of that one youve had since the Reagan administration. 

Doug Hey, Ill tell ya, I love this watch, ok? It lights up and everything. 

 Sure, but can it tell you the time in Portugal? I think not. 

Doug Pace, can I ask you something? 

 Sure. 

Doug This job of yours, is it on the up and up? 

 "On the up and up"? You sound like youre 50 years old, Doug. You sound like dad. 

Doug Look at it from my perspective, Pace. You come home with this new car, you got flashy new clothes, expensive gifts for the whole family. Excuse me if it seems just a little too good to be true. 

 Right, right. I forgot. Yet another reason why it sucks to be a Witter, cause you cant just be happy for me. You couldnt just, I dont know, say, be proud of me. You actually have to accuse me of being involved in some sort of illegal activity. 

Doug , Im not accusing you of anything. Im just wondering how much you know about your place of employment, thats all. 

 What is this, man? You should be happy for me. Are you jealous or something? Is this about how much money Ive been making? 

Doug I dont know. Maybe youre right, Pace. Maybe I am jealous, I dont know. Or maybe Im just worried about you. 



 Dawsons Bathroom. Audrey is going through the medicine cabinet and comes across some prescription bottles, and finds one and takes a pill from it. She swigs it down wit h a glass of water.



 Hums Santa Claus is coming to town Santa Claus is coming to town 

She makes her way to the dining room where everyone is already there. She is staggering while walking showing she is really drunk now.

People chatting 

 So where the hell is Jack? 

 Are you drunk? 

 Yes, but that does not explain where Jack is. 

 In Europe with his dad and Andie. 

 Dope. 

She sits down in the chair that Grams was just about to sit in.

Gale Evelyn, would you like to say grace? 

Todd I wouldnt mind leading us in prayer, Gale. 

Todd is really drunk and luring a lot

Gale Oh, well, that would be lovely, Todd. Thank you. 

Todd Dearly beloved, we are gathered here today to celebrate the birth of your son. Now Im at a disadvantage here. Not knowin any of you, Im sure, know who I am. I am a filmmaker, celebrated on many continents, but I dont know any of you, which is a travesty because people like you, regular people, are my target audience. 

He notices  sitting on the other end of the table

Todd Except you, blondie. You look very familiar to me. 

 You hit on me on a-- on a plane once from Boston to New York. 

Todd Did we shag? 

 No. 

Todd Are you sure? Because Im flashing on some sort of mile-high club activity. 

 Laughs No, that wasnt me. 

Todd Well, good, cause thatd be embarrassing. 

He looks back to the 

Todd Where was I? Oh, yes, the birth of Christ. Let me start with what I am thankful for. I am thankful for Gale... for inviting us into her lovely home. And I am thankful to her progeny Dawson. Progeny. Progeny. Her progeny Dawson. This kid has been an invaluable member of my production team. Hes helped me through one of the roughest productions known to god and man, and I love him. I love him very much, Dawson. And the funny thing is hes managed to get himself involved in a sexual relationship with a beautiful woman, which reminds me of my first film actually, except she was what we call underage, so we dont talk about that. 

 Todd? 

Todd Yes, Dawson? 

 Well, could we wrap it up? 

Todd Forgive me. Forgive me, Gale. 

Mr. Potter I, uh, have to say that Im really impressed with what youve done with your life, Dawson. I mean, Ive known this kid since he was running around making movies with a video camera. Its really amazing to see how far hes come. 

 Thank you, Mr. Potter. That means a lot. 

Mr. Potter Maybe you guys have an opening for Eddie here. 

 Youre looking for work, arent you, Eddie? 

Todd I like Eddie. We never found a replacement for Phil the P.A., Did we? 

 Yeah, well, films not really my thing, but thanks for thinking about me, Mr. Potter. 

Mr. Potter What is your thing, Eddie?

 Dad. 

Mr. Potter What? Im curious. 

 No, youre not. Youre being a dick. 

Mr. Potter Joey. 

 Mr. Potter? Yes, Audrey? Can I ask you another question about prison? 

Mr. Potter Sure, Audrey. 

 Yeah. So... why is it that you dont think Eddies good enough for your daughter? 

 Audrey. Back off. 

 What is your problem, princess? I was sticking up for Joe dirt over there. 

 This isnt gonna end well. 

 Would you shut up, ? 

 Youre out of line, Audrey. 

 Of course I am. Anyone messes with the one that got away, and you get all up on your high horse, dont you? 

 Audrey. 

 Oh, excellent. Another party heard from. Whats your problem, Lindley? 

 I think youre the one with the problem. 

 Oh. Devilishly clever of you, . Oh, honey, are you still upset that I shagged your dream boy? Because I am sorry about that. 

 What are you even doing here? 

 I missed my flight, bitch, which is really terribly unfortunate because if you think that spending Christmas here on Walton mountain is my idea of a good time, then you all are about as high as I am right now. 

Gale Audrey, why dont you go lay down? 

 Oh, you know, thanks for that, Gale, really, but I think Im kind of just getting started here. Do any of you have any idea how incredibly hypocritical this whole little gathering is? I mean, I may be flying high on a pleasingly potent cocktail of vodka and painkillers-- and thank you, by the way, Gale, for the painkillers, but I seem to be seeing things a little bit clearer than any of you. Dawson. . You guys hate each other, dont you? Youre never going to be able to-- to mend this little rift that exists between the two of you, so why do you even bother with the charade? And Dawson and Joey, Audrey laughs Here you are, both of you, all grown up and so very pleased with yourselves, and each with your little significant other by your side respectively, and while, you know, I will give you that it does make for a pretty picture, the truth of the matter is you guys finally slept together, and youve never really dealt with it, and neither of you are going to be able to have a relationship with anyone else until you just finally deal with your crap once and for all and-- as for you, , I am really sorry that Audrey Hepburn next to you broke your heart all those years ago, and its prevented you from ever fully committing to an adult relationship, but you know what? Just grow up. Merry Christmas, scum suckers. Peace Out. 

She gets up and storms out of the room.

 Well, that was fun. 

Todd Merry Christmas. 

She grabs s keys off the table by the door and storms outside. She makes her way over to s car, and is obviously very drunk now, even dropping the keys a couple of time trying to get into the car. She gets into the car stars it up.

Car starts 

Car accelerates 

Doug , isnt that your car?

She pulls out quickly, and begins to pull around the house when she crashes into the house into the room next to the dining room where everyone is sitting

Debris cracks 

Audrey climbs out of the car as everyone rushes to see if she is ok. She gets out with a little blood on her lips.

 Yeah. I kinda think I zagged when I should have zigged. 

she walks over to the couch and throws herself down onto it.



Commercial Break



 Outside Dawsons House on the porch. Doug and  come outside to talk alone.



Doug , do you have any idea what youre asking me to do here? 

 Yes, Im asking you to keep her out of trouble and just make this go away. 

Doug Listen to me, your girlfriend in there is in trouble. She needs some serious help. 

 Ok, look, shes not my girlfriend anymore, and right now she hates me, so shes not going to listen to anything I have to say to her. This is the only way I can help her, Doug. 

Doug Did you ever think that it might actually be better for her if she does get into trouble for this? 

 Thats ridiculous. Im asking you for a favor here, and in my lifetime, I have not asked you for much, but Im asking for this. Doug, do this for me, ok? Make it go away. Please, Doug. 

Doug You willing to take all the blame for this? 

 Yes, absolutely. 

Doug Laughs 

 What? Whats so funny? 

Doug No, nothing. Nothing. Its just that, um-- you know, youve given yourself quite the makeover, havent you, Pace? You know, youve grown some facial hair, you got yourself a real job, nice car, fancy clothes, but youre still the same . Youre still looking for a quick fix, arent you? You want me to sweep this under the rug? Fine, Ill do that. I dont know what good thats gonna accomplish because Audrey is gonna live to drink and drive another day. And you know what? It may not end up so happy next time. Ok. If anybody asks, you did this. All right? New car, you lost control, youre a moron, people will believe you. Trust me. 

 Thank you. 

Doug And Ill pay for whatever else needs taking care 

 Yeah, ,throw some money at it cause, you know, that fixes everything. 

Doug Come on, Doug. What do you want from me? 

 No, Im not done. You know, maybe I never told you this, , and if I didnt, I am so sorry, but last year, when you were a cook, I was proud of you. I was happy for you. I actually admired you, . There was something, I dont know, honest about it. Almost noble. Guess it didnt suit you, did it? 



 Dawsons Bedroom. Audrey is lying on his bed, as  is standing in the room watching over her.



 Sighs How do you feel? 

 How do I look, Lindley? 

 Like complete and utter crap. 

 Snorts Well, that sums it up nicely, thank you. 

 Do you want me to call your parents? 

 No. , if you do that, if you-- I swear I will make it my lifes purpose to kick your ass all the way back to New York. 

 Ok. Why are you so angry, Audrey? 

 Ok, dr. Melfi, you know, is this some sad attempt to impress ? Because, you know, like, the last time I checked, hes not here. 

 No, I was just trying to help you. 

 Well, dont. Ok? Just... pretend that I am too far gone, which isnt that far from the truth anyway. I just--I wanna be left alone, . Im so sick and tired of you people. You all say that you want to help, but its all just... posturing, because none of you really noticed how screwed up I was until tonight. With friends like you, who needs enemas? 

 leaves her alone.



 The stairwell by the front door.  comes downstairs with her coat on, and her bags in her hands. She goes to put a note on the table by the door, when Dawson comes walking around the corner and sees her.



 Hey. 

 Hey. 

 Where are you going? 

 Back to L.A. My manager got me on the last flight out. 

 Youre gonna leave just like that? Just like that. Listen, , Im sorry for everything. 

 Dont be sorry. You were right about everything. I slept with  Winter. 

 Thats fantastic. 

 Im just being honest. Isnt that what you wanted? Yeah. 

 Yes. Honestly, I mean, thats great. Thats—

 Look, Dawson, Im sorry if I was reckless with your emotions. I didnt mean to be. I thought we were having fun. I dont-- I dont love you. I never did. It was fun. Sleeping with you made me feel sexy and beautiful, and, to be honest, I never thought it would last much past wrap. 

 Yeah. Well... you know what? I dont love you either. 

 Of course you dont, silly. Listen, youre not built for this kind of relationship. Its kind of what I dig about you. I am too young and too self-absorbed to be entangled in something so serious, and if Im too young, youre way too young. You know, youre gonna make some girls dreams come true someday, in a big way, which is why I have to stop this now before I break your heart and turn you into a bitter cynic. 

 Dont flatter yourself. 

 Whispering Yeah. Merry Christmas, Dawson. Oh. Todds passed out in the bathroom. Im pretty sure hes still breathing, but you might want to hold a mirror up to his breath just to be sure. 

 Thanks. 

 Whispering Bye. 



 Outside Dawsons House. Joey and Eddie come walking outside and stop at the stairs at the end of the porch.



 So is this what all your Christmases are like, Joey Potter? 

 Um, you know, not so much. Usually we smoke crack and worship Satan. This was pretty tame by comparison. 

 Uh, look. 

 What? 

 I dont think you should come back with me, Joey. 

 Why? 

 Because you have plenty of stuff to deal with right here. 

 Why do I sense some subtext here? 

 You know, your father was kind of a jerk tonight. You know, but-- he wasnt altogether wrong about me. You know, Im not the most together guy on the planet, Joey. 

 Who asked you to be? Who even knows what that means? 

 It means that I should have trusted my gut. I shouldnt be here. 

 Why? 

 Because it was-- it was all too much too soon. I shouldnt be dealing with a father who thinks Im a loser. I shouldnt be dealing with all of the ghosts of relationships past. Its too much. You know, I--I-- we need to be in the here and now. 

 Ok. Well, then, thats what well do. From now on, well be in the here and now, I promise. Ok? 

 You know, the same thing would have happened if you were at my house, you know. I mean, youd meet my family, and theyd be very impressed, but also very suspicious because you are so damn beautiful, and theyd wonder, "what the hell is she doing with Eddie?" And after, when you were gone... theyd pull me aside and theyd say, "what the hell are you doing, kid? That girls gonna break your heart."

 Eddie, I have no intention of breaking your heart. 

 Yeah. Merry Christmas, Joey. 

She watches as Eddie leaves, and then turns to go back inside when she notices Dawson at the end of the pier.



 The end of the pier. Joey comes walking up to join Dawson who is standing at the end of the pier, leaning on the rail looking off into the water.



 Didnt I sleep with you once and never talk to you again? 

 You know, I thought that was you. 

 Sorry about that. 

 Dont worry about it. Happens to me all the time. 

 So... some night, huh? 

 Yeah. Yeah. Kinda puts things into perspective. 

 How do you mean? 

 Well, you know, if Audrey had managed to take us all out in a blaze of glory tonight, Id hate to think that the last meaningful conversation you and I had was that one in your dorm room. 

 Mmm. Yeah. She was right about one thing, though, you know. 

 What? 

 We never really dealt with what happened. I dont know about you, but I kinda put it all into a little box and pushed it far, far away. 

 I spend a lot of time trying to figure out how it all went so wrong. 

 I spend a lot of time trying to forget we ever meant anything to each other. 

 Fair enough. I deserve that, I guess. 

 No, you dont, and the thing is, Dawson, it never works. A night like this, it does put things into perspective. See... I think sometimes its easy for me to kind of hate you because I know that youre out there, and if anything ever happened to me or if I ever really needed you, youd be there for me. 

Its true. 

 Dawson, if thats true, then how come we only ever end up hurting each other? 

 Well, were not hurting each other right now. 

 Well... right now is an illusion, though. Right now its a truce. But right now, I just want to stand here and talk to the one person who can maybe help me figure out how everything got this way. We can go back to hating each other in the morning. 

Sounds like a plan. 

 I dont really hate you, you know. 

 I dont really hate you either. 

Dawson puts his arm around Joey and she puts her head on his shoulder and hey start watching the freshly started snow fall.

 The Film Set. It is the final day of filming, and everyone has gathered together for their final meeting together. Todd stands up and begins to make a speech to all of the crew of the movie.

Todd Time of wrap, please, Dawson? 

 1207 A.M. 

Todd So thats what, Monday? 1207 A.M. Sometime in January, and we have done it, people. We have finished principal photography. 

All cheering 

Todd So, although its rather out of character for me, Id like to take this opportunity to thank all of you for all your hard work and to propose a toast. To us, and our movie. Cheers. 

All cheer and raise their glasses of champagne 

Todd walks away from Dawson and  comes walking up to Dawson from behind him.

 Its strange, isnt it, that all this will just be gone tomorrow, like it never even existed? 

 Hey. 

 Nice speech, by the way. And dont even bother trying to pretend that it was Todds idea, because that puppy had you written all over it. Sincerity, warmth, and a hint of something, I dont know. Bittersweet? Or was it just bitter? 

 Well, thats what wrap parties are all about, arent they? I know youre more experienced at them than I am. 

 So, are you going back to L.A. Tomorrow, or what.

 Yeah, with Todd. You? 

 Afternoon flight.  got me a small part in that Spielberg film hes doing. You know, its, like, 2 days work whatever, but who knows? Maybe itll lead to bigger things. 

 Knowing you, , Im certain it will. 

 Is that a little attitude? A break in the oh, so professional on-set demeanor youve been cultivating since the New Year? 

 Not everyone on the planet is acting every second of their lives, you know. 

 No, maybe not, but in Hollywood, they are. So, good-bye, Dawson. Good luck out there. I have a funny feeling about you. 

 Whats that? 

 That youre gonna need it. 

 Right. 



Opening Credits



Commercial Break



 Hells Kitchen. Joey in the backroom, talking on her cell phone.



 Monday Hi. Its me. Um, Im back at school. I mean, Ive been back. Flash to Tuesday in the bar I wasnt going to call you, because, you know, you havent called me, and I do have something called pride, though apparently not enough, because, you win, ok? Im being the typical girl and calling you. And in retrospect, you know, I really dont think Christmas went that badly, if you grade it on one of those whos afraid of Virginia Woolf type scales. But, um, anyway, youre probably out pounding the pavements and stuff, so just give me a call when you get a chance or whenever. Ok. Bye. 

She hangs up the phone and walks out and past the pool table

Man Hey , how did you get in here, you dont look a day over 16.

Harley People always think Im 16, but, duh, I am totally 18. 

She stops recognizing the voice of the girl talking when she walks by the pool table

 Dont you mean 15? Nice talking to you guys. 

She pulls Harley away by the arm

Harley Ow! Maniac. 

 Harley, what are you doing here? I thought Christmas vacation was long over for the Britney and Christina set. 

Harley Im not on vacation. Unfortunately, I live here now. So, wheres Eddie? Hes the only nice person I know in Boston, and he still owes me a root-beer float. 

 Wait a second. You live here full-time now? As in full-time with your father? 

Harley Yes. Why are you smiling? 

 Sorry. Its just your fathers such a great guy, he deserves to have such a well-behaved, good-natured, teenage girl living with him full-time. Speaking of which, why arent you in school right now? 

Harley If I tell you, will you tell me where Eddie is? 

 Out with it. 

Harley Ok, fine. I was on a field trip, and I ditched. You would, too, if your entire life was ruined by your mothers sudden need to do research in Bangladesh. 

 Harley, your life isnt ruined. Youre just being melodramatic. 

Harley Right. Like you would know what its like to have your life ruined? 

 Look, hes not here, ok? Eddie. And to be honest, I dont exactly know where he is. 

Harley Man, I cant believe you messed it up with him. He was amazing. He was beyond amazing. 

 Look, Ill go get you a root-beer float, and then you have to go back to school. I dont care how miserable it is. Its just life. Life is miserable. 



 Boston Aquarium.  enters the Aquarium, and begins walking around looking from one fish tank disply to the next.



Woman Hey, guys. Hey, stay with your partners, guys. Stay with your partners. Lets go. 

As he walks down one of the walk ways he sees Emma sitting on a bench by a large tanks drawing on a pad, and listening to headphones and walks over to her

 Ok. Shouldnt you be doing that in a museum? 

 Oh, bloody hell. 

 Sorry. I didnt mean to scare you. 

 Well, you did. Its not the sort of place you expect to find stockbrokers. 

 Give me a break, would you? Im on my lunch hour. Mind if I sit? 

He goes to sit next to her, and she shoos him over to the bench across from her.

 No, go ahead, but dont sit too close. 

 I know, that overwhelming physical attractions getting to ya, huh? 

 No, thats not it, exactly. 

 Really? 

 No. I just dont want anyone to know that, uh, youre with me. 

 Thanks. 

 Laughs What are you doing here, anyway? 

 I work near here. I come here all the time. The better question is what are you doing here? 

 Im just killing time till 100. 

 What happens at 100? 

 Well, you should know this, since you come here all the time. 

 On my lunch hour, which happens at noon. So I come here, I walk around, have a slice of pizza, and Im out the door by 1245. 

 Ah, back to work. 

 Yeah, thats why they call it the lunch hour. Cause, you see, if was to stay till after 100, by the time I got back to work, itd be the lunch hour and a half, and we just cant have that, now, can we? 

 Then I dont want to keep you. 

 Excuse me? 

 Its 1246. 

He looks up at the clock on the wall, and sees that it is 1246

 Oh. Right. Right. Then Ill... Ill just see you back home. 



 The Help Line.  is talking on the phone, while CJ is sitting across from her with a clip board in his hand.



 Well, of course it sucks. Thats why they call it life. And what is it really, other than an endless series of mind-numbing days, one on top of another. Alienation, despair-- these are the natural by-products of living in a mechanized society—

CJ Ok, stop. 

 Stop? 

CJ Yeah. Um... a lot of people get depressed this time of year. I dont think theyre calling in hoping to talk to Kierkegaard. 

 But you said he was a philosophy major. 

CJ Whatever. Look, I just, I dont wanna fight, ok? I get annoyed, and you get defensive. Lets just move on to the next one. 

 No. Lets not. I quit. 

CJ You cant quit. You havent even started yet. Its your first day of training. Its your first hour. 

 Yeah, well, if the training consists of sitting here for a week and listening to you act superior to me—

CJ Ive been doing this for 2 years. 

 Great. Well, maybe your expertise will come in handy when we get to a hypothetical situation involving casual sex and a couple of blond girls. 

CJ Maybe youre right about one thing. Lets call it a day. So, come back tomorrow or dont come back, but whatever you decide, you should make it about you, not me. 



 The Health Clinic. David is talking to a nurse, while Jack is sitting on a bench waiting impatiently.



 Ok. Thisll do nice. Thanks. 

David goes back and joins Jack.

 Damn. 

 What? 

 Oh, theres no good magazines to read. 

 Thats it? I mean, youre not at all nervous about this 

 Oh, its a piece of cake. Ive done it, like, a million times. 

 A million? 

 Give or take. Id be a pretty hypocritical peer counselor if I didnt practice what I preached. 

 Right. 

 Seriously, its no big deal. And the most embarrassing part is when they ask what kind of high-risk behavior youve engaged in the past 3 to 6 months. The only thing I can come up with is eating carbs after 9 P.M. and jaywalking. 

The Nurse comes over to their area.

Nurse Jack McPhee? 

 Its fine. 



 The Hollywood Studio Office. An Executive is reading from cards in his hand as he walks around the table, behind Dawson and Todd while they sit there listening to him go on about their film. Sever other executives are there as well.



Executive Blindingly dull. Achingly dull. Mind-numbingly dull. 

Todd I see, and what do these little cards prove exactly? Other than the fact youve been previewing the bloody thing all along? 

Executive They prove that were not through shooting. Thats what they prove. 

Todd Reshoots? 

Executive Absolutely. More sex. More violence. Maybe a little twist in the plot thats not predictable from the very first frame. I mean, obviously, the goal here is to try to make this damn thing watchable. 

Todd I see. So, youre calling my movie unwatchable? 

Executive I dont have to. They did. You want me to read some more? 

Todd No, that wont be necessary, thank you. Grabs a pack of cigarettes out of his coat Anyone got a light? If Im gonna sit here and take artistic advice from every tom, dick, and Harry in Tarzana that didnt have anything better to do last Wednesday night, then Im gonna bloody well need some nicotine, all right? Light, please, Dawson. 

He reaches into his pocket and grabs something and puts it into Todds jacket pocket before getting up

 Um, you know what? Im gonna go get one. 

He goes out into the foyer, and grabs a phone and makes a call

 Come on. Pick up the phone. 

Cell phone rings and Todd begins to look around to see where the sound is coming from. 

 Reach into the pocket and pick up the phone. 

He reaches into his pocket and pulls out a cell phone and looks at it like where did this come from

Todd Hello? 

 Shut up before you make this any worse and get out here. 

Dawson hangs up, and Todd looks at the phone .

Todd Hello? Hello? 

Todd hangs up the phone and stands up

Todd Excuse me. 

Executive Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Where do you think youre going? 

Todd Oh, Im sorry. Dont mean to be rude. Theres another idiot out in the hall that requires my attention. 



 Out in the Foyer. Dawson is standing there waiting when Todd comes storming over to join him.



Todd And just what in the bloody hell do you think youre doing?! 

 What do I think-- what are you doing? Youre digging yourself a hole in there bigger than the La Brea tar pits. 

Todd Did it ever occur to you that might be my intention? 

 You never wanna work again? 

Todd Were in charge here. We make the decisions. 

 Which is all well and good except for one thing. 

Todd What? 

 Its their money. Look, you brought me here for my ability to stay calm in a crisis, right? Well, this is it. This is a crisis cause if you dont go back in there and act happy about these reshoots, theyre gonna get somebody else to do it, somebody who can ruin this movie. 

Todd And would that be such a tragedy? 

 Yes. Look, maybe Im naive thinking that this whole system, this whole process, can only produce something thats a notch above mediocre, but I want this thing to be good. I want it to be as good as it possibly can be, and I dont think I wouldve stuck it out working for you this whole time if you didnt want the same thing. 



 Back in the conference room. Dawson and Todd have returned and are peacefully sitting down listening to the Executive speak.



Executive So, we figure 3 days of reshoots on a soundstage here in L.A., Very minimal budget. The whole idea here is to, uh, come up with a new ending. Something thats watchable. Or at the very least, something that makes sense. Now, I have no idea what thats going to be, but  here seems fairly confident that given enough nicotine, alcohol, caffeine, you might be able to pull something off. 

Todd Well, thats, uh, very charitable of her. Thank you, sweetheart. 

Executive Mm-hmm. All right, Todd, whats it gonna be? 

Todd Well, I can see where youre coming from. I can. I can see where youre coming from. I can see how you and other people like yourself, people of lesser intelligence, might be a bit confused by my movie. And I can see how you actually dont have any new ideas of your own on how to improve it, because, after all, youre not really in the business of having ideas, are you? Oh, thats right. You think you are. Well, youre not. Youre in the business of criticizing other peoples ideas. Which is why, after much careful consideration, Ill be throwing your most generous offer back in your face and leaving. Good-bye, and good luck with all your future endeavors. 



Commercial Break



 Professor Hetsons Class. It is now Wednesday. Professor Hetson is lecturing the class, and is finishing up for the day, and Joey is just trying to pay attention, but has other things on her mind.



Hetson Well, then, since nobody seems up to the rhetorical challenge of convincing me that Norman Mailer was wrong when he dismissed all female writers as unreadable, thats it for Wednesday. 

Everyone begins to leave, and Hetson begins to pack up his bag, when Joey walks timidly up to him.

Hetson Oh. That cant be Joey Potter. Guess one D" isnt enough to get anyone thrown out of Worthington anymore. 

 Sweet, really, your overwhelming concern for my future, but thats actually not why Im subjecting myself to your toxic personality. 

Hetson Great. And Ill skip ahead to the part where I inform you that no, no matter how many times you ask, it will never be possible for you to drop this course without forfeiting your credits from the first semester. 

 Look, I dont want to be standing here talking to you any more than you want to be listening to me. I just need to tell you that your daughter... well, she may not be as safely ensconced in Milton academy as you currently think she is. 

Hetson What does that mean? 

 Shes cutting class, ok? 

Hetson Im a little confused as to why youre telling me. 

 She came into the bar yesterday, on the lam from some field trip, and... god knows where she went when she left. I just... but call me crazy, I just figure these are the things the father of a 15-year-old girl wandering the streets of Boston should know. 

Hetson The subtext here being that these are the things that a father would know if he were paying attention. 

 I didnt say that. 

Hetson You didnt have to. Look... Ill tell you what. Sighs Lets make another one of our famous deals. You stay out of my life, and Ill do my very best to stay out of yours. 

 Gladly. You know, Im sorry for the intrusion. I guess I was naive enough to think that this might actually be about something other than your gigantic male ego. 



 The Boston Aquarium.  and Emma are walking the next day along one of the walkways talking to one another.



 So youre saying that that doesnt bother you, the whole life-as-repetitive- stress-injury thing? 

 No, it does, but nothing prepares you for a life of mind-numbing boredom and repetition so much as studying music as a child. 

 Piano lessons? 

 Violin. 

 Yeesh. 

 Yeah. My mum taught piano, though, to a series of ever-changing twits who all had one thing in common They were allergic to dogs. 

 So you had fish. 

 Tanks full. So, whats yours, then? 

 My what? 

 You excuse for coming here every day. It cant simply be a matter of geographic proximity. 

 No, its not. Its, uh... its much like yours, really. Its sort of a window into the person that I used to be. 

 You used to be another person? 

 Much as Im sure you werent born with pink hair, I am not the conservative person you think that I am. 

 Youre not? 

 No, Im not. 

 Prove it. Stay. 

 Stay here? 

 Come on, I dont think you taking one afternoon off is going to send capitalism screeching to its knees. 

 No, it probably wont, but it will catapult me to the top of the Rich Rinaldi firing list. 

 Yeah, thats such a bloody tragedy. 

She reaches into her pocket and grabs her cell phone and hands it to him

 Here. Call them. Tell them, I dont know, that youre sick or something. 

 Youre serious about this? 

 Yeah. Question is Are you? 

 Laughs 

He dials the phone

 Hi. Can I speak to Rich Rinaldi, please? Coughs Coughs 



 The Help Line.  is talking on the phone again, while CJ is sitting by her with his clip board.



 Ok, well, if what youre telling me is true, is that youve-- youve had unprotected sex with 17 women in the last 3 months, then I definitely think its a good idea for you to get tested. For you and for all of those hot women youve been sleeping with. 

The camera pans past CJ and we see that David is on a phone on s desk a little ways away from him and he is actually talking to .

 What? What? I have nailed many a hot girl in my day. 

CJ Hey, I believe you. 

 Thank you. I cant believe I volunteer to help you guys and get criticized for my acting abilities. 

 Oh, please, like you could ever be straight. Your heart is too big, and so is your brain. 

 Laughs Shes hostile. 

CJ Told you. 

 Could you please not talk about me like Im not in the room. So I have some anger. Can you tell me that theres something wrong with expressing your emotions? 

Jack comes into the Help line and goes over to David

 Hi.

 Hey! 

 Sorry. Am I, uh, interrupting—

 No, no, its cool. Were--were done here, I think. 

CJ Yeah, its 400. Were done. 

 So... you guys think you can get along without me tomorrow, or what? 

 Whoa, whoa, whoa. Wait a second. You mean the only reason youre hanging around here all afternoon instead of wasting time with me is because she cant manage to get along with him? ? 

 Are you mad at me, too? You cant loan me your boyfriend for one measly hour? Is he your boyfriend? Have you guys kissed yet? Did I miss all of this over Christmas vacation? 

 Charming. Lets go. 

Jack and David leave, and CJ is just looking at .

 Why are you looking at me? 

CJ Hostile. 



 The Hollywood Office Conference room. Dawson looks back at the clock then sighs as he looks down at the papers in front of him. The executives are there too and getting impatient. You can tell that they are waiting for Todd who is nowhere in sight.



 Sighs 

Executive Aha. So hes changed his mind, has he? Come to his senses? Not that his apologys going to be accepted, mind you. 

 So where is he? Caught in traffic? Smoking? 

 Not exactly. 

 Dawson? 

 Yeah. You know, technically, actually, hes not gonna be here today, uh, because technically, he... doesnt know that this meeting is taking place. 

 You set this up? 

 Um-- yeah. Uh, technically. 

 Chuckles You set this up to apologize for him, to smooth things over, to clean up after his mess... like youve been doing all along? 

 Yeah, kind of. Look, nobody sets out to make a bad film. Todd wants it to be better. I know that he does. And he might be too proud to admit it, but hes got, like, 5 alternate endings in his head. This is stuff weve been talking about all along, stuff that can easily be done on a soundstage in 3 days for no money. 

Executive Well, thats all very sweet and moving, but since I dont see him here on his knee begging for forgiveness, youre wasting my time, my friend. 

 Unless—

Executive unless what? 

 Unless the answer to our problems is sitting right in front of us. 

Executive Excuse me? 

 Excuse me? 

 I know this is gonna sound crazy, but just stay with me for a second. He knows the footage weve already shot. He knows the script, the actors, the crew. Personally, from what Ive seen, I think he could do it. 

 Wait a minute. Hold on a second. 

Executive What? Youre saying you cant do this? 

 No. Im saying this is insane. 

Executive All right, let me ask you this. Hypothetically, if you had to, could you direct the reshoots of this movie? 

 Well, yes, but thats not—

Executive all right. Call his agent. 

 I dont think he has one. 

Executive Well, then dont call his agent. Call his mother and make her sign a permission slip. 

 Wait a minute. Wait-- hold on a second. This is insane. This is--this is not why I came here today. This is not what I wanted to have happen. 

 Well, guess what? It did. And since opportunities like this dont come along every day, Id hop on the happy train. Or, Im sorry, is being a director not the fulfillment of a dream youve been waiting your entire life for? 

 No, it is. It definitely is, but—

 Well be in touch. 

Door closes 

 Oh, boy. 



Commercial Break



 A Beach in LA. Jack Osborne and Audrey are walking along the beach, which has obviously had a party the night before.



 So did we ever figure out whose party this was? 

 No. Some dudes,

 then I dont suppose we ever figured out what day it is. Come on! Give me a break!

 Sos your friend coming to pick us up or what? I really vote we take a cab. 

 Yeah, and pay the guy with what? You know, you being famous doesnt make me any less broke 

 what? Youre broke? 

 Yes, jack, Audrey Liddell is broke. Is that so impossible to believe? 

 Wow. Someone must be paying too much for their drugs. 

 You know, contrary to popular opinion, Im not on drugs. 

 Yeah, right. You know, I hate to be judgmental like your weird college friends, but please dont rip my lungs out of my chest when you have some bad PCP. 

 Shut up, will you? Hes coming. 

 Who? Your friend? 

 Dawson. Dawson leery. Im sort of on thin ice with him at the moment, so if you can find it within yourself to shut up about drugs for, I dont know, say, the next half an hour—

 What? Youll make it worth my while? 

 Dont I always? 

 So youre saying I can go through your underwear drawer unsupervised? 

 No! Thats gross! Ill sit on your lap the whole way home, ok?

 All right. Cool. 

 But one word about any sort of illegal substance, and you have blown it. 

 Hey, I have self-control. 

 Ill believe that when I see it. 

Dawson comes waling over to them.

 Im going to go wait in the car. 

 Hey, Jack. 

 Hey. 

 Hey. 

 You came. 

 Yeah. You called, right? 

 The fact that I recently destroyed your house with an automobile must have, uh, slipped my mind when I was dialing. I freaked out, ok? 

 What, then or right now? 

 Both, I guess. 

 What are you even doing here, Audrey? 

 Here in L.A. Or here at this weird party? 

 Either one. 

 I dont know. One minute, jack and I are, like, in a parking lot off sunset talking to these guys in a limo, and the next minute, were here, and its morning, and... Sighs Like I said, I just freaked, and... you were the only person that I knew would be in this area code and would definitely be awake at this hour. 

 What about your parents.

 Please. 

 Do they even know that school started back already? 

 No. I wasnt ready to go back last week, so I lied a little bit. I didnt want to face the grand tribunal of judgment. Im ready now, though. And Im going to be good from now on, Dawson, I swear. Just... dont be mad. I mean, dont be any more mad than you already are. 

 Sighs All right. Just... tell me you realize how stupid it is to get in a car full of strangers that you meet in a parking lot. 



 Hells Kitchen. IT is the next Day and Joey is back in the kitchen again calling Eddie and leaving a message on his phone for him



 Hey, its me again. Um, look, I get that youre avoiding me. I do. Many days, no phone calls. What could be clearer? But, um... Im scared now, because I dont understand why you wouldnt call me back. Its not like you, ok? And I guess Im just scared that something may have happened to you, because--and even if something did happen to you, I wouldnt know about it, because, obviously, Im not a very important person in your life. So... could you just... call me back? Uh... call me back as soon as possible. Bye. 

She hands up the phone and goes back into the bar and goes over to a booth where Jack and David are sitting and joins them.

 Mmm... any luck this time? 

 When have I ever been lucky with men?

 Hell call you back, Joey. I know he will. 

 Uh, yeah, yeah. 

 Theres usually a very logical explanation for this kind of thing. 

 Yeah, I guess. Hey, can you guys, um—

 Pay the bill thats been sitting here for, like, a century? Yeah. 

 You guys are welcome to stay as long as you want. Its just... I dont feel that great. I want to get home early. 

 Yeah, its no problem. Here. Ahem. Keep the change. 

 Thanks. Thanks a lot. 

 Bye. 

Joey leaves them alone.

 Well, that was depressing. Theres nothing sadder in the universe than watching somebody wait for a phone call thats obviously never going to come. 

 Oh, sure there is. Theres orphans, sick orphans. Plus, we dont know if this guys not gonna call. 

 Oh, please. Were guys, arent we? How many people have you ruthlessly hooked up with and never called? 

 A few. Look, I went out a lot this summer, all right? 

 And? 

 And I didnt call a few of the guys back. Look, if a straight guy did it, it would be rakishly charming, you know? You meet someone, ok? You think youre going to like them—

 And then after closer examination, you dont. 

 Yeah. 

 But only after the closer examination part. 

 Basically. Are you going to give me some kind of lecture here, or what? 

 Do you want one? 

 Not particularly. 

 Fine. 

 Fine. 



 Hells Kitchen. Joey is coming out of the back room with her coat on and is putting on her gloves, when she notices Harley by the pool table talking to some older guys again.



 Ok. Lets go, Harley. Youre outta here. Get your coat. 

Harley Excuse me? 

 Look, I really dont have the energy to go through all of this again today. In case youve forgotten, weve already played this  2 days ago. 

Harley Yeah, and then you ratted me out to my father, who grounded me for a month. So I figured the only way I could repay you would be to cut class again. 

 Right. You really think Im going to leave you here with a possible date-rapist who thinks youre 18? I dont think so. Im leaving. Youre leaving. Lets go now. 



 The Boston Aquarium. It is the next day, and  and Emma have met again during lunch time.



 I cant believe you talked me into staying for this yesterday. I mean, big fish eating little fish. Whats the big deal? This is what you drag your butt down here for every day? 

 Well, if it was a big company eating a little company, youd love it. And for the record, I dont come here every day. 

 You dont? 

 Not normally, no. Usually just when I have a hangover. 

 So, then what was this week? Some sort of special occasion? 

 Look. Ive just been wondering whats it all for. I mean, if what youve told me over the last couple of days is true, then youve pretty much changed your entire life, and Im not entirely sure why. 

 How the hell should I know? Why does anybody change their life? Why do people dye their hair, for that matter? 

 To piss off my mum. Or to try to be somebody else? 

 For me, it would be the latter. 

 And why do you want to be somebody else? 

 Because thats a part of growing up. Let me tell you,  at 15 was a bit of a schmuck-- bad haircut, bad Hawaiian shirts, broke all the time. Dumb enough to be chasing after things he knew he was never going to get, anyway. 

 Mostly women, I suppose. 

 Mostly... though there were a few girls. And you are allowed to call them girls when theyre 16. 

 Hmm. Not that you care what I think, but... I dont think he sounds that bad, this person you used to be. He actually sounds kind of nice. 

 Yeah, well, maybe he was... occasionally. 

 Hmm, still could be. Quit the job. Get rid of that goatee. Grow back the terrible haircut. 

 What if I told you Id actually been thinking about that lately? 

 Im not sure Id believe you. Unless... 

 Unless what? 

 Unless you showed up here again tomorrow, promptly, at 100, wearing some wretched Hawaiian t-shirt. 



 The Help Line.  is talking on the phone while CJ is across the desk reading from a book.



 Look, you know that thats not true, right? I mean, just because a girl has a less than perfect relationship with her father, it doesnt mean that she wont be able to sustain a more meaningful relationship in-- hel--hello? Hello? She hung up on me. My first real non-hypothetical caller, and she hung up on me. 

CJ Somebody probably walked in the room. You know, a roommate or something. She got embarrassed and hung up. 

 No, youre just trying to make me feel better. 

CJ No, you were doing fine. 

 Why did this have to be boy trouble? Why couldnt it have been a nice eating disorder or a homesick freshman in need of a good old ego boost? 

Telephone rings 

CJ You gonna answer that? 

 No. 

CJ She was talking to you. Shes probably gonna wanna be talking to you again. 

 No, I--I dont wanna answer it. Im just gonna mess it up again. Y-y-you do it. 

CJ Are you sure? 

 Yes. Just answer it. 

 just looks at it, and CJ finally answers the phone

CJ Help line. This is  No, she had to step away for a second. Yeah, shes, uh-- shes a little high-strung. Oh, lets give her a break, though. Its her first day. Yeah, yeah. It is hard to talk when other people are in the room. All right, why dont you call me back in 10 minutes when theyre gone? Yeah, Ill be here. All right. Promise me youll call me back. Ok. Bye. 

He hangs up the phone and  is just staring at him.

CJ What? 

 Nothing. 



 The Sidewalk outside Eddies Apartment. Joey and Harley come walking up to the apartment complex door.



Harley Hello? Every third store were passing sells liquor. Shouldnt this indicate to you that were not in such a great part of town? 

 Yeah, well, you wanted to walk on the wild side, so since your dad is in class until 600... were here. 

Harley Where are we, anyway? 

 Nowhere, ok? I just have to do something. 

The stop and the front door, and Joey presses the buzzer button. Harley looks at the buzzer and realizes where they are

Harley "Eddie doling, 3-a"? I thought you said you didnt know where he was. 

 I dont. I know where he lives. I just dont know where he is. 

Harley Well, perhaps youve heard of this invention The telephone? Its a helpful stalking tool. 

 Yeah, I tried that already, Harley, thank you, but when a girl leaves a whole slew of unreturned voice mail messages for someone she thought was her boyfriend, and then—

Harley Boyfriend? Uh-oh. That means one thing. You slept with him, didnt you? 

 What did you just say? 

Harley I asked if you slept with the boy. You know, had sex? Gone all the way? 

 I thought thats what you said. 

Harley Yeah, so, whats the problem? 

 Nothing. I guess I... I had forgotten what a sophisticated woman of the world you are. Harley, youre probably not even a virgin, probably lost it years ago to a trucker named bubba, right? 

Harley I dont get it. 

 Youre not supposed to. 

Someone leaves, and Joey catches the door before is closes, and they enter the apartment building

 Look, go. Im not in the mood for this. 

Harley So what? Just because Im 15, Im not even allowed to talk about sex? 

Joey knocks on the door, and it slowly opens as if it wasn;t closed all the way

 No, you can talk about it, and then when youre 19, you can have the unadulterated joy of looking back and realizing what an idiot you sounded like. 

Harley Oh, right, because youre so smart now. You must know exactly what youre doing. Thats why you came all this way to stalk someone who hasnt called you back since you decided to sleep with him. 

The go inside and the apartment is entirely empty, and joy just looks around at the empty apartment, shocked.

Harley What? Whats the big deal? Were in the wrong apartment, right? Joey? I mean, this obviously isnt it, right? You got the numbers switched or something. Joey? What are you doing? 

Harley realizes that they are in the right apartment, and can see the tears beginning to well up in Joeys eyes.



Commercial Break



 The Stock Brokerage.  is working and talking on the phone, but he is not dressed up in his normal suit, but rather he is dressed up in a t-shirt and a horrible Hawaiian T-Shirt. Rich comes walking over to him carrying a large pile of papers. It is now Friday



 I must say, your idea of casual Friday leaves a little to be desired, Witter. 

 Do you think we could discuss your fashion dos and donts some other time? Like, say, after lunch?

 Lunch. Think again, my friend. 

Rich drops a large pile of paperwork on his desk.

 Whats all that? 

 Extra work... or, Im sorry, did you think your little mini-vacation would have no consequences? 

 I told you I was sick. 

 Yeah, well, I dont get sick myself, and you know what kills me about people who do? 

 Whats what? 

 How they never seem to realize that them being sick doesnt decrease the quantity of work around here. It just means someone else has to do it. Doesnt seem very fair to your colleagues, does it, now? 

 I can tell youre all broken up about that, rich, but perhaps what youre really upset about is that they just dont open up as many new accounts as I do. 

 Getting a little unnecessarily cocky here, arent we? 

 Cocky, yes, unnecessary, no, because all of us here know that the amount of money you make is directly proportional to the amount of money we make. 

 Yeah, well, that may be true, but my attitude isnt the problem. Yours is, and I expect to see a change in it soon, very soon. Remember, maybe this will help. 

Rich stops a woman walking by, and grabs some envelopes from her and pulls one put and hands the rest back to her.

 Thanks. I love January, cause thats when this comes. 

He throws the envelope down on the desk in front of .

 What, my paycheck? Thanks. 

 Not your paycheck, Witter, your w-2. Im not exactly sure whats in there, but Im guessing its more than they pay fry cooks. 

 Like you would have any idea. 

 Hey, anytime you want to quit and go back to the easy life, be my guest, but as long as you work here, the only lunches youre going to be going to are the ones you cater... in your mind. Chuckles 

He looks at the pile of paperwork and then to the clock and sighs. The  cuts to the Aquarium and Emma is sitting there waiting for . She looks up at the crowd trying to keep an eye out for him. He eyes perk up when she sees a Hawaiian shirt in the crowd, but gets disappointed when she sees it is not . We  a little later and it is now 130 and  hasnt shown up let. Emma is still looking all around for him, and finally gives up after a little longer, and leaves.



 The Help Line.  and CJ and several others are sitting around doing absolutely nothing. There are no phone calls coming in, and you can see that  is confused by the lack of activity.  looks over at CJ who is reading a book.



 So this is what its like when youre actually working, huh? 

CJ This is it. 

 I thought the phones would ring a little more. 

CJ Well, it doesnt really work like that. I mean, think about it. Think about how stubborn people are, how hard it is for them to ask for help or actually admit theyre wrong about something. 

 Yeah, youre probably right. Listen, —

CJ Its almost 400. Caffeine fix? 

 Youre asking me if I want coffee? 

CJ Yeah. Im just gonna go out to the cart. 

 Oh, no, no. No, youre not leaving me here alone. 

CJ Yeah, I am. 

 No, youre not, because if you leave, then the phonell most certainly ring, and itll be someone on the other end who wants to talk to somebody and—

CJ Yeah. Thats what youre here for. 

 Yeah, except you know what youre doing, and I dont, which is why you shouldnt go. 

CJ You know, a few days ago, you couldnt stand being in the same room with me, and now you dont want me to leave. 

 That was a week ago. Cant a person change in a week? 

CJ I dont know. Can she? Sure you dont want anything? No? Ok, Ill be right back. 

CJ leaves and  watches him go out to the coffee cart, and looks down at the book he was reading

 Kierkegaard. 

Telephone rings 

Ring 

 Sighs 

Ring 

 Hello, help line. Well, um, if we being completely honest, which I hope we are, I-I-Im not entirely sure if I can help you, but, h-- but I-Id like to try, so... 



 The Health Clinic. David is waiting for Jack to come back from the nurse. He comes out, and is visibly happier.



 So, you gonna tell me, or what? 

 Nothing to tell. 

 Ha ha ha! Cool! 

 Let me, uh-- let me ask you something. 

 Yeah? 

 You know all that stuff that we talked about yesterday, did that fundamentally alter your opinion of me in any way? 

 Yeah, right. Like I couldnt tell from a mile away that you were gonna end up being way sluttier than me. What come on, jack. Give me a little credit. I mean, look at you. Youre ridiculously good-looking. I mean, youre no viggo—

 Yeah, ok, that--that-- thats great. Lets go.

 What, were leaving? 

 Well, yeah. You dont honestly think Im gonna stand here and have this conversation with you? 

 Im sorry, but I sorta think—

 Hey, hey, hey, David... 

 yeah? 

Jack kisses him

 Shut up. 

 Yeah, I think I could do that. 



 Professor Hetsons Class. Professor Hetson is lecturing again, but you can tell that Joey is not listing very intently to his lecture. Hetson goes over and sits on the table in front of Joey and continues to lecture.



Hetson One of Bartholomews central tenets, of course, was his belief that only by jtaposing disjointed, quite often at times, absurd fragments of time could one truly replicate the emotional tenor of real life. Can someone give me an example? 

He looks down at Joey.

Hetson Joey? Ok, pick a story, any story. Wait, Ill pick one for you. Uh, the school. How about that? Ring any bells? 

 Uh, yes. 

Hetson Whats it about? 

 Its about a teacher whos trying to explain something to his students. 

Hetson Whats he trying to explain? 

 Death and loss. 

Hetson Why is he trying to explain it? 

 Because it keeps happening to them over and over again, like this endless cycle. First, the orange trees, then the herb garden, then the tropical fish. You know, its absurd, really, because... one minute, theyre there. The next minute... theyre gone, and the thing thats true, the part of it thats true, the part of it thats real, is that no one ever does explain it to him because... no one can.

Hetson Thats great, Joey. Of course, you forgot all about the snakes and the puppies, but, oh, look, were out of time for today. Monday, everyone, Saul bellow. 

The Class leaves and as Joey is about to finish packing her bag and leave, Hetson walks over to talk to her.

Hetson Got a second, Potter? 

He goes to hand her some money.

 Whats this? 

Hetson This is 50 bucks. Ok, look, I know youre poor, but dont tell me youre so poor youve never seen 50 bucks before. 

 I dont get it. 

Hetson For taking care of Harley while I was teaching yesterday. She said that you helped her out with something, said she was having some kind of a crisis. 

 She was having a crisis? 

Hetson Yes, look, just take the money, will you? Itd be a whole lot easier for me than trying to be nice to you for the rest of the frickin semester. 

 Wait a second. Why would you be nice to me? Why?

Hetson Because as you pointed out the other day, this really isnt about me. Her mothers gone, and her father... 

 Is a gigantic scuzzbucket? 

Hetson Yes, he is, actually... most days, anyway, according to her. You, on the other hand, she seems to like. 

 Yeah, well, Im very likable, but likable and poor. 

Hetson $50, 3 times a week.

 65, and Ill help the little angel with her homework, not that shed want help from a "D" student. 

Hetson Deal. 

 Here. 

Hetson Whats that? 

 50 bucks. No charge for yesterday.

Hetson Uh, look, dont do me any favors, Potter. 

 Im not. You wouldnt understand, ok? 

Hetson Was it a girl thing or something? 

 No, its a human-being thing. 



 An LA Beach. Dawson comes walking down the beach and finds Todd standing there with a surf board and Todd is not surprised to see him.



Todd So you found me then, did ya? 

 Called the surf report. There were only so many beaches you could possibly be at. 

Todd I can see Im gonna have to get one of those little men in black dealies, deprogram you now that our long association is over. Its too dangerous, isnt it? Having that much information floatin around out there, everybody just waiting to be used against ya? 

 I came by to apologize. 

Todd For what? For stealin me job? Look, after you told em no yesterday, like the bloody idiot that you are, they called me. They even apologized, as much as theyre capable of. 

 So whats next? We do reshoots here? We go back to Boston? What?

Todd Im sorry, mate. You misunderstood me. Were not doing anything. You are. 

 Wait a minute. Ive been through this before. Im not gonna—

Todd Not gonna what? Not gonna benefit from being at the right place at the right time? Thats all it is, you know. Doesnt mean youre actually going places or that youre more talented than I am, you know. I mean—

 God, no. Youre like... Barely functional, but youre... like my mentor. 

Todd What, not Steven bloody Spielberg? 

 Well, he... hasnt been returning my phone calls. 

Todd Just dont make it any worse, ok? And listen, the absolute first thing you have to remember to do when youre on set is take a picture of s face at the exact moment that shes introduced to her new director... cause thats something I bloody well have to see. Come in. 

They walk along the beach together and camera fades to black

 Hells Kitchen. , Jack and  are sitting at a table talking together, when Joey comes up and joins them carrying a bowl full of popcorn. They are all joking and laughing with one another.

 Yeah, yeah, and if I said-- if I said--if I said one word like that, the whole thing would be, like, aah! 

All laugh 

 And another thing about bad bosses—

Audrey comes into the bar and looks around and sees them and sheepishly goes over to the table

 Oh. 

 So... anyway, heres the thing. Um, I messed up, and Im really sorry... you know, for my insane behavior the past couple of months, for any pain or worry I might have caused you guys, for... pushing you away when you were just trying to be my friends. So the thing is that after the whole Christmas debacle, you know, I went home to Los Angeles, and... this one night, this one horrible, horrible night, I found myself at this party in Malibu on this beach... full of strangers. And the sun was coming up, and... I was just drunk off my ass, and... I remember looking around and thinking, "you know what? "Maybe the problem isnt Joey... "or  or... " or  "Or jack or Dawson or anyone else. "Just maybe... maybe its me." I dont expect you to forgive me right away because I do realize how bad Ive messed up, and... you know, I just... if you guys wanna call me sometime, you know, just to say hi, that would be really cool. Because I really love you guys, and I miss you, and Im just really sorry. 

They all get up and stop her before she can leave

 Audrey. 

 Audrey. 

 Hey, come on. Come back here. 

 Audrey. Audrey. 

 Hey. We missed you. 

 Yeah. I missed you, sweetie. 

 Its ok. 

They all take turns hugging Audrey

 Oh, god! Ha! 



Opening Credits



Commercial Break



 Hells Kitchen. Emma is leaning on the pool table while staring at the new bartender, when Joey comes walking up from the back room. Joey sees Emma and decides to find out what she is doing.



 What are you doing? 

 I was just having a sexual fantasy about the new bartender. We were out in the alley, and we were doing it against the brick wall behind the garbage bins. 

 Interesting. Cause to me, its totally the pool table. 

 Joey potter, I am shocked! 

 What? I am not above the occasional random sexual fantasy to help the otherwise glacially paced workday. Believe me. Dont let the prim exterior fool you. Underneath it all, Im actually... less prim. 

 Laughs Oh, while were on the subject of bartenders with lust-worthy asses, whatever happened to Eddie? 

 What do you mean? He got fired. 

 Well, I know that. But he never even came back to clear out his locker. 

 Well, why would you think that I would know where he was? 

 Well, werent you two—

 Oh. Oh, we had a little fling. A barely significant fling. I mean, it was... nothing. 

 I guess I must have got it wrong. 

 Yeah. Me and Eddie, way over. It was over before it started. 

 Ok, well, good. Then I guess you wouldnt mind clearing out his locker. The boss has been asking me about it, and we really do need the space. Id do it myself, but I was kinda hoping to cut out early for band practice. 

 Yeah, sure. Thats no problem. 

 Good. Ok. Um, I guess you can pretty much just throw everything into the garbage. If there was anything of any worth, Im sure he would have come back for it already. 

 Right. 

 Youre a love. She looks down at the bartenders ass as he walks by and winks at Joey Oh. Have fun then, Joey. 



 The Brokerage.  is attending a meeting with the other brokers in the office. Rich is going over the tasks ahead of them.



 So continue watching to see if the merger takes. In the meantime, advise caution to your clients. Now one final note. Id like to remind you to keep pushing Stepatech industries. Its about to shoot through the roof. When their new drug gets approved on Monday, anyone who holds the stock is going to be very, very rich. And I dont need to remind you that Stepatech itself is a client here, and wed like to keep them happy, so keep giving it the hard sell. All right, lets go out there and make some money. 

Everyone leaves

 Witter, can I talk to you for one second? Please.

Rich turns to  before he can leave

 Heres the thing. I know weve had our problems in the past, but dont think that because of that Id let your good work go unnoticed or unrewarded. 

 Rich, please, the enormous commissions are reward enough for me. 

 Spoken like a true acolyte. So I have an extra reward in store for you. Theres a big shindig tomorrow night at the home of Roger Stepavitch. Do you know who Roger Stepavitch is? 

 Of course I do. Hes the founder and CEO of Stepatech industries. 

 Very good. He asked me personally to bring my most promising seller to this particular shindig, which puts me in kind of a tough position because, well, its you, . Youre my best seller. Lets face it. You have some sort of natural gift for this stuff, a gift which unfortunately is matched only by your incredible ego and attitude. And Im torn because on the one hand, I see flashes of greatness in you. And on the other hand, I see flashes of you freaking out on me in the middle of the French quarter down in New Orleans, or you suddenly pretending to get sick and blowing off work for a couple days for no apparent reason. So as you can see, Im in a bit of a bind. I want to bring you to this party, . But first I need to know something. Can you be a team player? 

 Wow, rich, I-- I mean, uh, heh. I dont know what to say here. Im honored. 

 Yeah. 

 Im honored by the trust that youve placed in me, and I do know that we have had our differences in the past. But you should know that now I am 100% committed to this job and everything that it has to offer. And I fully realize what an enormous opportunity youre giving me here by taking me to this party, so—

 Witter, I dont need your life story. A simple yes or no would have sufficed. 

 Right. Well, in that case, yes, absolutely. You can count on me 100%. Im a team player. 

 Good. Its settled, then. Youre coming to the party. 

 I--I appreciate that. Thats--this is fantastic. 



 Outside Emmas Apartment. Audrey turns the corner of the hallway to Emmas apartment and sees a line of women lined up to her door. She makes her way around the women, and knocks on the door. Emma opens the door and is a shocked to see Audrey there.



 Sorry to keep you all waiting. I-- oh. Hello. 

 Dude, what is up with all the Courtney Love wannabes? Its like an Audrey convention out there. 

 Um, yes, well, why dont you come on in and Ill explain about that. 

 Sighs Hey. Ok, you guys, whats up? Why are you looking at me like somebody died? 

 I dont know how to say this. Um, those girls out there? Theyre out there because theyre auditioning to be lead singer of this band. 

 But we already have a lead singer, you guys. 

 Yes, we did have a lead singer. Unfortunately, she flaked out so terribly, she had to be replaced. You know, got drunk a lot, messed up on stage, and then disappeared to California without so much as a phone call, missing several band rehearsals, you know, the usual bit that gets lead singers kicked out of bands. But the thing is we have a gig tomorrow night, like, a real gig. Well, were third on the bill, but were opening up for a band thats opening up for a band thats really good. Like, amazing, actually, and... this could potentially be huge for us, and we cant afford to muck it up. 

 What band? 

 Loud milk. 

 Oh. I love that band. 

 Dont we all, and were playing at the Bent Elbow. 

 The place is, like, famous. 

 I know. Its all fairly monumental, which is why we needed a new lead singer, one with the talent minus the drama. 

 Ok. I got it, but... the thing is... that you guys should know, is that there was this lead singer, you know, the one who flaked out terribly and messed up and deserved to get fired, but, you see, that lead singer--shes gone. Because she had this moment of clarity on a beach in Malibu, and she realized that all of the drinking and the partying and--and the general mayhem was costing her the things that were most important in her life like her friends and... this band. You guys, Im sorry. Im really sorry because this band is one of the few things that I care about in the whole stupid world! Ok, and--and you have got to admit that I may be part of the reason why you guys got that gig. And you know that none of those girls out there are gonna be half as good as me when Im good! And I promise you that if you give me another chance, I will be better than good. I will be the best. Please. You guys, just gimme-- just gimme another chance, please? 

Emma looks at the other and members and they all nod their approval.

 Ok. But I swear, if you make me regret this, I will kill you. 

 No, I wont, I wont, I wont! 

Audrey runs over and hugs Emma and they both fall onto the couch.

 Aaaah! 



 Back room of Hells Kitchen. Joey is cleaning out Eddies locker. She throws away some papers, and a shirt that he has left in the locker. She reaches in and pulls out a large envelope that was addressed to Eddie at his parents house, and opens and pulls out a letter and large document. She reads the letter, and it is a rejection letter from a publisher. She looks at the document and reads “Greetings from Worchester Short Stories by Eddie Doling” on the cover page. She decides not to throw this out.



Commercial Break



 The Bent Elbow. Audrey and Emmas band are rehearsing in front of many of the other bands members, and everyone is getting into the music that they are playing. Audrey is singing “Bad Times“ and is sounding rather good now that she is sober.



Rock music playing 

They finish the song, and rap their rehearsal session.

 that actually sounded very good. All right. So, everyone meet back here at 815? 

 Ok. Sure. 

Audrey walks into the back room and runs into a member of one of the other bands playing.

Man Hey. 

 Hello. 

Man You girls rock. 

 Oh. Well, thanks. 

Man So, um... uh, you like to have fun? 

 I guess. 

Man Well, Im with the, uh, the other opening band, Satans Tampon? You ever hear of us? 

 Laughs I cant say that I have. 

Man Right. Well, theres a-- theres a party happenin later on the tour bus if you wanna come. 



 Joeys Dorm Room. Joey and Harley are there sitting on her bed, and Joey is tutoring Harley in Geometry.



 Ok, Harley, all you have to do is follow the formula. Its simple. "A" squared plus "b" squared equals "c" squared. 

Harley Scoffs Forget it. Im never gonna get it. 

 Yes, you will. You just follow the formula. 

Harley Screw the formula. The formula can lick my lily-white ass. 

 Nice. You kiss your father with that mouth? 

Harley Ew, gross. Why would I kiss my father? 

 You know what? Fine. Why dont we take a break? You want a soda? 

Harley Id rather have a vodka. 

 Oh, sorry. Were out. 

Joey throws her a can of soda, and Harley is just staring at her.

 What? 

Harley Just wonderin how youre holdin up. 

 How Im holding up? 

Harley Look, we could sit here all night and pretend that I dont know what I know about you and Eddie or you could actually realize that I might be a good confidante or shoulder to cry on. We could talk about it. 

 I appreciate the offer, but theres really nothing to talk about. 

Harley What do you mean theres nothing to talk about? The boy just disappeared with no explanation. He broke your heart. Youre dying inside, wanting to know what happened to him. 

 Thanks for the recap. 

Harley Joey, listen, I may be a 15-year-old idiot, but... Im also your friend, and I understand the situation with you and Eddie better than youre giving me credit for. 

 Youre my friend? 

Harley Yeah. Were friends. Arent we? 

 Yeah, I guess we are. 

Harley Cool. So, hows the search going? Any new leads? 

 What search? What, am I supposed to hire a private detective to find some guy I dated for 2 months who obviously never wants to see me again? 

Harley Well, how do you know he doesnt want to see you? Maybe he just got bonked on the head and now he has amnesia. Or maybe he got kidnapped by international jewel thieves. Point is, you have to be your own detective. 

 Well, now that you mention it, and I cant believe Im telling you this, but... I sort of found a manuscript he wrote. It had a phone number and address on it in Worcester, which is where his parents live, and they probably know where he is—

Harley Well, what are you waiting for? 

 What, am I just supposed to call them up and ask? 

Harley Yes! Duh. 

 Dont you think it-- it seems a little desperate and pathetic? 

Harley Its romantic and heartfelt. 

 I guess it wouldnt hurt to call. I mean, at least Id know where he was. You know, that he was alive. 

Harley Go. Call. 

Dialing 

Harley Whats going on? 

 Oh, its all very exciting. The phone is actually ringing. 

Harley Laughs Shut up. 

 a ringing Phone. Eddie Picks it up off he toolbox next to the car he is working on

 Hello? 

Joey hangs up the phone, and Eddie looks confused for a sec, then goes back to work on the car.



Commercial Break



 The big Fancy Party. Rich and  have just arrived at the party and have walked in to join the party. A man sees them and walks over to welcome them. 



 Welcome to the big leagues, my friend. Please dont embarrass me. 

Carl Rich Rinaldi. 

 Hi. 

Carl Hey. How ya doing? Its good to see ya. 

 Good to see you. 

Carl So, congratulations on landing the account. Rogers over there singing your praises. 

 Thats certainly appreciated, Carl. We do our best. This is, uh, Carl Rosen, VP in charge of marketing at Stepatech. Have you met  Witter, one of our most promising young sellers? I have a feeling youre gonna be hearing a lot from him in the future. 

Carl Oh, pleasure to meet you, Mr. Witter. 

 Its a pleasure to meet you, too, sir. 

Carl Well, gentlemen, keep up the good work. Enjoy yourselves. 

 Thank you. 

 Thanks.

Rich sees a woman at the other end of the room

 Ah. Excuse me. Uh, I see someone that Im going need to pow-wow with. You gonna be ok on your own for a little while? 

 Chuckles 

Rich goes off, and  goes over to the hors devour table and grabs a small one when a strange but very good looking lady comes quickly over to join him

Lady Ok. Save me. 

 Im sorry? 

Lady Ok, theres this 98-year-old man over there that will not stop grabbing my ass. So, you know, just until he stops lurking, just pretend that were having some sort of a conversation. 

 Ok. Laughs Hi. 

Lady Thats it? Thats it? Thats all I get? "Ok. Hi"? 

 Ok. Hi, Im  Witter. 

Lady Oh. Well, so, youre  Witter. 

 What, youve heard of me? 

Lady Lets just say that your reputation precedes you. Now, Ive heard that you are quite the up-and-coming young talent, a real boy wonder. 

 And just where did you hear that? 

Lady Lets just say that I make it my business to know these things. 

 So, then, you work for Stepatech? 

Lady Nope. 

 So... 

Lady it must be a real honor, rich picking you out of everybody to come here tonight? 

 I see. You know rich. Well, whatever you do, do not believe a word that man says about me. 

Lady So, tell me something, . Youre new at this, right? 

 Mm-hmm. 

Lady Mm-hmm. Tough business. Lotta sharks. 

 Ah, its not so bad. 

Lady Why this? Smart kid like you, you could be in college. I mean, is it the money or—

 No. No. Not really. Well, thats a lie. In the beginning it was definitely the money, and then after that, it was the thrill of the hunt, the adrenaline, and now I guess its some combination of the both. And what about you? What do you do? 

Lady Ooh. I guess hes gone. 

 Wait, thats it? Youre just gonna leave? 

Lady Mm-hmm. 

 But I dont even know your name. 

Lady Well, youre gonna have to try a little harder than that. Ill see ya later, . 



 Hells Kitchen. Joey is sitting at the end of the bar, reading the short stories of Eddies. Hetson comes rushing into the bar and immediately goes over to Joey.



Hetson Where is she? 

 Who? 

Hetson Who? Who, she says. You know damn well who! 

 Harley? 

Hetson Harley, get your butt out here this instant! 

 Harley isnt here. 

Hetson You dont have to cover for her, Joey. The school called. She cut class again. Fourth time this month. Harley? Come on, I know youre hiding. Dont be afraid, just get your ass out here so that I can kick it into oblivion. 

 You know, I hate to interrupt your extremely effective parenting techniques, but Im afraid shes really not here. 

Hetson Well, where do you think she went? I mean, she--shes probably ok, right? I mean, I mean you--you think shes ok, dont you? 

 Where is this coming from? 

Hetson Look, Joey, I--I admit that I havent been the most present parent to this point, but sometime-- I dont know, one minute it was all barney and Elmo, and now, well, Im kinda startin to realize that my little muffin might just be a juvenile delinquent. 

 All right. Calm down. Shes not a juvenile delinquent. I mean, yeah, she talks a good game, and she may skip school occasionally, but... its all just a front. Trust me. 

Hetson Still doesnt change the fact that shes missing. My little girl is missing. 

Harley comes walking up to join them

Harley Hey, daddy. 

Hetson Harley. Where have you been, young lady? 

Harley I just had an errand to run... in Worcester. 

Eddie comes walking up behind Harley

 Hey. 



 Bands Tour Bus. There are a lot of people in the bus partying, and Audrey is sitting on one of the couches a little out of place.



Rock music playing 

Man Big gig, huh? 

 Yeah. 

Man You nervous? 

 No. Thats a lie. Yeah, actually, tremendously. I dont think Ive ever done this sober before. 

Man Well, in that case—

She looks at the bottle, and nods her head no.

 I quit. 

Man Quit? 

 Im re-assessing my life or something. 

Man Bummer. 

 Yeah. 

Man2 Yeah, whatever happened to that girl in Philly? 

She finally gives in, and decides to have a drink.

 You know what? Actually, can I just... have a sip? 

Man2 Yeah. Sure. 

 Thanks. 

One of the guys holds out his hand with 3 pills on it.

Man Want one of these? 

 Ok. 

She takes one and chugs it down with the bottle of alcohol still in her hand.

 Ugh. There you go. 



 Hells Kitchen. Joey is trying to keep herself busy working while trying to ignore Eddie, but he is following her all around the bar. 



 So do you think maybe you could stop ignoring me so we could go somewhere and talk? 

 Oh, Im sorry. Was I ignoring you? 

Hetson comes walking up to the bar, and stops in front of Joey carrying 2 empty glasses and finishing off a buffalo wing in his hand.

Hetson My compliments to the chef on the deep-fried buffalo wings. Theyre excellent tonight. 

 Shouldnt you be home punishing her? 

Hetson I am punishing her. Im making her sit and have a meal with her father. By the way, were outta root beer. 

 Ask the bartender. 

Hetson Hey. Thank you for driving her back, but do me a favor. The next time my daughter comes to visit you in the gutter, shut the door, slither off, and stay the hell away from her. 

He turns from Eddie and Joey and goes off in search of the bartender.

 So, thats it? Youre just not gonna talk to me? 

 If you have something to say, go ahead. 

 Fine. Look, Joey, Im--Im here because I know, and I wanna help you deal with this. I mean, its my problem, too. 

 What? 

 Look, Harley told me. Ok? I know. 

 Know what? 

 About... about the whole, you know, the whole pregnancy thing. 

 Oh. You mean the whole fake pregnancy thing she made up in order to lure you here under false pretenses. That whole pregnancy thing. 

 So, whoa, wait a minute. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Youre not-- you mean youre-- youre not pregnant? 

 No. 

 Oh, thank god. 

 Even if I was, I certainly wouldnt tell Harley. 

Joey moves a tray that was sitting on the short stories she was reading earlier.

 Hey, is this my, uh-- where did you get this? 

 Just one of the many non-valuables you left behind for someone else to clean up. 

 Oh, I see. So I leave you behind, therefore you send your little minion to come after me and trick me back? 

 But perhaps if you didnt wanna be found, Eddie, maybe you shouldve covered your tracks a little better. 

 Did you-- did you call my house and hang up yesterday? 

 No. 

 Wow, you know, I mean, it makes sense. I mean, youre obviously pissed off by the way things ended between us. 

 Oh, you see, you know what? Thats where youre wrong because things actually really never ended between us, Eddie. You just up and moved to Worcester for no apparent reason without even informing me, which to me, if you ask me, thats not really an ending, now, is it? I dont care. I mean, now that I know youre alive, the mysterys solved. You can go. 

 Joey, I left, but did you ever stop to think that maybe I did that for you? 

 Are you dying, Eddie? 

 No. 

 Were you protecting, uh, government secrets? Were you kidnapped by international jewel thieves? Is that it? Because otherwise, the only person you did that for was yourself. It was a nice, easy out. I get it. You know what, you got it. Youre out. 

 Do you think it was that easy? It was the hardest thing Ive ever done.

 Really? 

 You know what? Forget it, ok? It doesnt matter. Im just gonna go. 

 Fine. 

 Fine. 

 Fine! 

Eddie turns and leaves, and Joey grabs her coat and goes outside after him

 So, why, Eddie? 

 Why? Because, ok? 

 Because? 

 Because. Because I couldnt even face you. Ok? Because I was ashamed. 

 Ashamed? Ashamed of what? 

 Ashamed of what? Joey, I couldnt even find a job. I couldnt pay rent. They turned my electricity off. I had cockroaches crawling on my arm. 

 But why would you think that would make a difference to me, Eddie? I mean, Im poor, too, remember? Im just like you. 

 No, ok? You are not just like me, cause you actually have a future. You actually have a life ahead of you. 

 So do you. 

 No! No, dont you see? I mean, thats why I punched Hetson that time, because he was right, and I knew he was right. I mean, why is it that youre the only one who cant see it? Joey, Im nothing. Im just a guy with no job, no money in the bank, no prospects, no education, no talents, nothing. Hell, I even got the rejection letter to prove it. 

 They said you have promise. 

 Well, they say that to everyone they reject. 

 Yeah, but in your case, its true. 

 Look, I appreciate the pep talk and all, I do. But lets face facts. I mean, you and I, were headed for 2 very different futures. And the truth is, Joey, is... you deserve to be with the best guy in the room, not the one who picks up his trash or buses his table. Youre gonna have whatever you want in this life, Joey. 

 I wanted you. 

 No. No, you wanted that guy you met in English class. And Im not him. I gotta go. 



 The Bent Elbow. Emmas Band is up on stage starting up, when Audrey comes stumbling up to the stage and slams down a shot of alcohol before grabbing the mic and begins singing, much poorer than before.



Audience applauding 

 What is up, bent elbow?! 



Begins singing “Love Is All Around “



 The Fancy Party.  is standing with 2 other guys at the party and listening to them rant on.



Man Well, I got in on the ground floor. Sort of had an instinct about it. 

Man2 Instinct or luck? 

Man I dont believe in luck when it comes to money. 

Man2 The lucky ones never do. 

 looks over and sees the lady he was talking to earlier talking with some other guys, when Rich comes up and gets his attention.

 Come on, we have some business to attend to. 

 Do you know her? 

 Who? 

 Her. 

 Uh, well, from the back of her head, Id say I have absolutely no idea. Now, perhaps, youd like to join me in the private office of Roger Stepavitch so we can discuss ways you and I can get closer to becoming millionaires. 

 I can do that.

 Good. 



 The Private Office of Roger Stepavitch. Rich and  take a seat at the couch opposite of Roger, as he sits down in a large leather chair to talk business.



Roger So, , rich tells me you have quite a raw talent. 

 Well, everything I learned, I learned from Rich. 

Roger Well, I appreciate all your hard work. Youve helped sell a lot of Stepatech stock for us. 

 Only because I believe in your company, sir. 

Roger Tell me, , were you surprised when rich told you that we decided you should take on a more prominent role in the handling of the Stepatech corporate account? 

 Actually, roger, I hadnt mentioned it to him yet. 

Roger Oh. 

 And Im really sorry, gentlemen, but I dont think I follow. What do you mean, a more prominent role? 

 Uh, its like a promotion, . Your title will stay the same, but you will be getting a substantial raise. And from now on, your name will be on all transactions that we handle for Stepatech corporate. 

 Thats-- thats fantastic. But honestly, do you think Im ready for something like that? I mean, I just finished those series 7s, and Im a little green, but other than that, you know, if you think I can do it—

Roger Uh, I thought that you said that, um—

 Actually, Im a little surprised by your attitude, . 

 Im sorry. Im really sorry. I think I mis-spoke. Its just such a fantastic opportunity for a man as young as myself. It caught me a little flat-footed. But let it never be said that  J. Witter is not all about stepping into the future, which, if Im correct, is actually the slogan for your fine company. 

 Thatll do. 

Roger Excellent. Well, welcome aboard, young man. I predict great things for you in the future. 

 Well, thank you, sir. And I hope I can live up to your expectations. 

Roger I have no doubt that you will. 



 Hells Kitchen. Joey is cleaning up the table that Harley is sitting at.



Harley Youre mad at me, arent you? 

 No. 

Harley Yes, you are. I know I messed up. Im sorry. You were so sad, I just thought I could help. 

 I know, Harley. Its just that in the future, maybe you could obtain express written consent before you go off willy-nilly telling boys that Im pregnant. Or on second thought, maybe you could just not do it at all, ok? 

Harley I wont. Promise. 

 Thanks. 

Harley So what happened? 

 Hes gone. He just left, and hes given up, and the thing that sucks about it is I read those stories, and theyre actually really good, and hes never gonna do anything with them. Hes probably just gonna rot away in Worcester for the rest of his life and theres nothing that I can do. 

Harley Look. 

She points over to her father who is standing at the bar, paying the bill.

 What? 

Harley Hello? 

 No. 

Harley Why not? 

 Because Im... Im not asking your dad to read his stories. I mean, hed never help him, and even if he wanted to, Eddie would never let him. 

Harley Its worth a try, isnt it? I mean, if my dad hates them, Eddie never has to know, and if he loves them, maybe he can help him. Its better than him rotting away in Worcester forever. 

She goes over to Hetson with the stories, that she has grabbed from behind the bar.

 Professor Hetson, um... I was wondering if you could maybe read these short stories and tell me what you think. 

Hetson You are aware that Im honest to a point some have called brutal? 

 Yes. 

Hetson And that Ive crushed more than one would-be Sylvia Plaths literary ambitions into oblivion? Youre still willing to take that chance with yours? 

 Theyre not really my ambitions. 

He looks at the Short stories and sees Eddies Name.

Hetson No. 

 Come on. You just have to read them. I mean, theyre really good. Theyre amazing, actually. 

Hetson I dont care. 

 Youre his last chance, professor Hetson. I know that you have connections. If you could just give him some encouragement, at least? 

Hetson Look, miss potter, lets get something clear. Not only is your Mr. Doling not a registered student at Worthington, not only did he try to defraud our hallowed university, ok, not only did he kidnap my one and only- 

 He didnt kidnap her. He gave her a ride home. 

Hetson Potato, po-tah-to. The thing is, Joey, I could forgive all that if it were not for one fatal mistake. He punched me in the face. I mean, there could have been scarring, broken bones. Were talking serious disfigurement of one of my most cherished assets, and that is not cool in my book. Come on, Harley. We gotta go. 

Hetson turns to leave, and Harley grabs her coat and the stories out of Joeys hands

Harley Dont worry. Ill work on him. 

 Dont forget your bag.

Harley Shh. 



 Bent Elbow. Audrey is still singing with the band, but is actually getting worse. She is having trouble with the lines of the song, and stumbling around on the stage while singing. The band just look at one another shaking the heads, but continue playing.



Audrey singing “Bad Times“ and “Love Is All Around “ mixed together



She jumps into the crowd, and does some crowd surfing. The drugs are getting to her and things are starting to get out of focus. The put her back on the stage and she grabs the mic she dropped

 aah, whoa! I want to be the lizard king! 

She passes out on the stage

Man Boo! 

Audience booing 

Woman She sucks! 

Audience booing 



Commercial Break



 Back stage of the Bent Elbow. Audrey is sitting on a chair leaning against the walk to keep from falling over. Emma comes walking up and hands her a bottle of water.



 Feel better? 

 Yeah. 

 Good. Youre out of the band. 

 No. Emma, you cant kick me out. You cant. I can do better because I had this moment of clarity on a beach in Malibu and I know that I need to be better, and I can—

 Dont want to hear it, Audrey. Youre out. Ill call you a cab. Go home and sleep it off. 



 Hells Kitchen. Joey is cleaning up the bar, when Hetson comes storming in and walks over to her.



Hetson Yes, yes, I am back. Can you believe it? Harley "forgot" her backpack. 

 Oh, yeah, um, Ill get it for you. Its right behind the bar. 

Hetson So your little plan worked. Harley annoyed me into reading a couple of Mr. Dolings stories. 

He hands her the stories

 Really? 

Hetson Yes. And while I found them to be overall perhaps maybe a little overwrought and derivative, they do show at their core a writer with potential. 

 Really? You think he has potential? 

Hetson Dont make me say it again. 

 Well, I mean, is there something-- theres gotta be something you can do to help him. I mean, maybe you can show his stories to a publisher. 

Hetson Hes not ready for that. 

 Well, maybe you could pull some strings at Worthington. 

Hetson No. 

 Come on, theres gotta be something you can do, anything. 

Hetson All right. There is someone I know who teaches at the California writers workshop. 

 Are you serious? Do you think you can get him in? 

Hetson I think Eddie could get Eddie in with my recommendation. 

 Well, isnt that place kind of, like, prestigious? 

Hetson Kinda, like, uh-huh. 

 Well, he doesnt even have an undergrad degree. 

Hetson Yeah, no, I know. I still think hes got a shot. Let me know what he says. 

 Oh, yeah, well, you know what, actually, professor Hetson, I think hed rather hear it from you. 

Hetson Joey, the kid punched me. Ill try and get him into this program, but I kinda think that thats enough. 

 Yeah, but, see, professor Hetson, the thing is, hes kind of... given up, and I dont think hed listen to me. I really... were not on the best of terms. 

Hetson Its a fascinating saga. Tell you what. Its up to you. You want to try and convince him, tell him Ill write a recommendation, but either way, its up to you. The balls in your court, kid. Look, Im off. Ive got Harley chained to a radiator. 

Joey looks at him in shock.

Hetson Kidding, Joey. Get a sense of humor. 



 The fancy party.  is getting ready to leave, and is waiting for the valet to bring his car around when the mystery lady from earlier comes walking up from behind him



Lady So, I guess this is good night. 

 You know, Im never going to be able to call you if you dont tell me your name. 

Lady That was a big night for you in there, huh? 

 Yeah, I guess it was. 

Lady Yeah. So, um, I saw you and rich going into Rogers private office. 

 Im sorry? 

Lady Let me guess. Youre moving up in the world, maybe he offered you a promotion? A big raise? 

 Are you a reporter? 

Lady Look, I just think maybe you should ask yourself why this has all been so easy... or if its just a little too good to be true. Good luck, . 

She gets into the car that the valet has brought around and leaves.



 Joey and Audreys Dorm Room. Audrey comes in and throws her coat on the floor and sits on her bed. After a minute or so she gets up and goes over to her dresser and grabs a bottle of alcohol out of her drawer and chugs a significant part of the bottle. After chugging the alcohol she looks at the bottle and then goes into the bathroom and pours out the rest of it into the sink. She goes to put the empty bottle onto the counter but it falls to the floor and smashes. Audrey goes back to her bed and collapses onto it.



 Outside Eddies Parents house. She stops at the walk outside the house and looks from the stories she is carrying to the front door.



 Gasps 

She goes up and knocks on the door

 Hey. 

 Hey. 

 What are you doing here? 

 I thought that you should have this. It doesnt belong in the garbage. 

She hands him the stories, and he comes outside and closes the door.

 Thanks. 

 Sure. I gave it to Hetson, and, uh, he said he could maybe get you into the California writers workshop. 

 You, uh, gave this to Hetson? 

 Yeah, thats right. 

 Whats the point, Joey? I mean, theyre not gonna let me in. Even if they did, I cant afford that place. 

 Maybe theres a scholarship, ok? Or financial aid. The point is to at least try. I mean, this is a shot, Eddie, a real shot. I suggest you take it. Ok, you know what, if you want to be a coward about our relationship and run out on me, thats fine, but dont be a coward about this. I mean, this is your life. Dont give up so easily. I guess I should go. 

She turns to leave, but stops and turns back

 You know what? Actually, Im not gonna go because thats just what you want me to do. Look, a long time ago, you told me that you wanted to be one of those people that took chances, who really lived life, but I guess that was a line, huh? Because as far as I can see, youre just afraid of me, of yourself, of actually living your life. 

 Youre right. 

 So now what? What are you gonna do about it? Are you just gonna sit here and rot away in Worcester? 

 No. 

He kisses her, but she pushes him away.

 Wrong answer.

 Im just doing what you told me to do. 

 Thats not what I meant. Sighs Its too late for that, Eddie. I... I gotta go. 

 Wait, Joey, wait. Sighs I love you. Please, Joey, dont--dont go. I dont want it to be too late. 

 I love you, too. Bye. 



 Joeys dorm room. Joey comes into the dorm room, and sees Audrey passes out in bed, and she takes off her scarf. She sees Audreys coat on the floor, bends down to pick it up, and looks into the bathroom and sees the smashed bottle of alcohol on the floor and turns quickly and runs over and tries to shake Audrey awake.



 Audrey. Audrey. Audrey, wake up. Audrey! Audrey. 

Audrey doesnt wake up and she quickly runs over and picks up the phone and dials 911.

 Joey and Audreys dorm room. Joey is packing a bag, while Audrey is trying to do anything she can to slow her down.

 I dont want to go to rehab. 

 Too bad, sister. Youre going. 

 Joey, I gotta tell you something. I read the brochures, and it doesnt look like a whole lot of fun. 

 Audrey, do you remember how I found you unconscious the other night? 

 Duh. I was unconscious. 

 You remember how the doctor said you couldve died? 

 Dont you think he was being just a tad dramatic? I mean, I am sure that Im not the first college student to suffer a mild case of alcohol poisoning, and Im reasonably certain that Im not gonna be the last. 

 Audrey. You have a problem. A big problem. You need help. You need to be around people who love and care about you. 

 Right. And those people would be? 

 Your parents? 

 Snickers Yeah. And thanks for calling em, by the way, because that was a fun conversation. 

 My pleasure. Hey, do you want this? 

Joey holds up a sweater.

 Mmm...no. That doesnt accentuate the rack enough. 

 Audrey, youre going to rehab. I think you might want to focus more on getting better and less on getting laid. 

 Well, I dont see why a girl cant do both. I mean, what if Ben Affleck is there? He is the sexiest man alive, you know. Ooh, that reminds me. Did you pack my Jane magazines? I missed, like, 5 issues while I was out wasted and whatnot. 

 Yeah. Theyre in here along with the stack of In Style and a tape full of Trading Spaces that I made for you. 

 Joey potter... you are a dream. And dont you forget it. 

 I wont. 

Telephone rings 

 Hello. Oh. Um, yeah. Shell be right down. Thank you. 

Joey hangs up the phone and turns to Audrey

 Well, your cabs here. 

 Joy. 

 Gimme a big hug. Get better soon. Ok? 

 Yeah, yeah, yeah. 

 You can do this. 

 Blah, blah, blah. Sighs Can I have a drink at the airport? 

 No. 

 Just a little one? 

 Sorry. 

 Bitch! 

 And if you do have sex with Ben Affleck, call me. I want to hear how it is. 

 Oh, well, you will get one. Ok. I shall return. And when I do, I will be clean, sober, and a hell of a lot more boring. 

 I cant wait. 

 Seriously, Joey... just thank you for... for everything-- for not giving up on me and all that. I kinda love you for it. 

 Youre a royal pain, and I love you, too. Ok. You can do this. Deep sigh Fly safe. 

 Ok. 

They hug and Audrey grabs her bag and leaves. When she is out in the hall she stops by a corner in the hallway and leans against it

 Sighs 



Opening credits



Commercial Break



 Joeys Dorm room. Joey is late for something, and her printer is not printing at a speed that she feels is good enough, and is quickly getting impatient with it. She is in her coat and has her bag in her arms and is ready to go but the printer is holding her up.



 Come on, come on. 

Te document finishes printing and she quickly grabs it and shoves it into her bag. 

 Ok. 

she opens the door to leave and sees Eddie standing outside the door.

 Hey. 

 Hey. 

 How you been? 

 What do you want, Eddie? 

 I wont keep you. I... I just wanted to say good-bye. 

 Really. Cause thats not really your style, is it? To what do I owe the honor? 

 Chuckling Man, the thing that always gets me about you, Joey, is that youre 10 times sexier when youre angry. And you seem to be angry at me a lot. Lucky me, I guess. 

 Yeah. Well, its nice seeing you. Keep in touch. 

 Wait. Ive been thinking a lot about what you said that night. About taking chances, you know? About...not givin up on myself. You were right about everything, Joey. I was afraid. 

 Youre...tellin me this why, exactly? 

 Im...goin to California. Yeah. My sister lives out there. Im gonna crash with her and her family. Ive got an appointment with that school. 

 Thats great. 

 Yeah. And believe it or not, Hetson actually wrote me a recommendation. It looks like there might be some kind of scholarship for me. I mean, I dont know if anything will ever come of it, you know, but... Im just gonna go for it, you know? Give it a shot. 

 Good for you. 

 Yeah. Good for me. 

 So...when are you leaving? 

 Tonight. Cars all packed. You know. Just me and the open road. Um... Ill let you get to class. You know, I just... I just wanted to say thank you... for everything. I owe you big time, Joey Potter. 

 Good luck out there. 

 Yeah. Listen... I know you hate my guts... but you think a hug would be out of the question? 

 Sighs softly 

they hug. And they are both enjoying it without letting the other one know. Then Eddie kisses Joey and the phone rings in her room

Telephone rings 

 Excuse me. Hello? Oh, hi, Mrs. Liddell. What?! Where is she, then? Ok, uh...let me check, and Ill call you back. 

 What is it? Whats wrong? 

 Remember how you said you owed me big time? 

 Yeah. 

 I may be collecting a lot sooner than I thought. 



 The movie set. Dawson is attempting to shoot the re-shots of the movie. They are shooting a  with  in it, and she comes running around the front of a car, while a guy playing her boyfriend is chasing her and tickling her.



 No tickling! I told you... no means no! Ha ha ha ha! 

 And cut! Awesome. Check the gate. Were movin on. 

Frank Moving on to what, exactly? 

 Next . 

Frank I see. So I guess you werent planning on getting any coverage here. 

 Um, Im sorry. I said--I got excited. Not the next . I meant next shot. 

Frank Which is? 

 Im thinking dueling overs. 

Frank Chuckling How interesting. Cause Im thinking... thats not gonna work. Its impossible to light dueling overs. What else you got? 

 Ok. W-what would you suggest? 

Frank I dont know. A couple years of film school, maybe. That chair doesnt make you a director, kid. 

Frank laughs and then walks off, and several other cast members are giggling as well.  comes walking up to Dawson as he stands there shaking his head.

 Can I ask you something? 

 Sure. 

 This ... 

 Yeah? 

 Why does it suck so much? 

 Sighs You dont like it? 

 I hate it. Who wrote this crap? 

 I did. 

 Ooh. Well...could you maybe find a way to say some of this smarter? 

Cell phone rings 

 Um...hold that thought. 

Dawson answers his cell phone

 Hello. Mom. 

Chuckles 

 Hey. Yeah. You know, can I call you back? This is really not a good time. Ive--uh, yeah. Ive--Im eating fine. Ok. Yeah. Bye. 

He hangs up and sees  giggling at him

 How mommy doing? 

 Sighs Shes great. Now, where were we? We were talkin about how much I sucked. Right?

 Right. So these pages, in addition to their general suckage, seem to imply that Claire needs to get naked. 

 Yeah. The studio wanted a little bit of gratuitous T&A. But dont worry. I plan to shoot it very tastefully. 

 Oh. Good to know, Dawson. But Im not getting naked. 

 What do you mean? 

 I dont do nudity. 

 But—

 No buts about it. Im not gettin naked. No means no. You know? 

 Sighs 



 Outside the Lindleys House. Grams gets out of the car parked out front, and slams the door.



Grams Well, I never! 

 comes walking up and sees Grams upset.

 Whoa. Grams? Hey. Hey, hey. Whats wrong? What is it? 

Grams I think Clifton Smalls and I have just broken up. 

 No! I thought you two were terminally smitten. What...what happened? 

Grams He wanted me—

 What?! 

Grams To... 

 Is this about sex? Did he want you to do something—

Grams no, no, no. Everythings fine in that area. Takes deep breath A-any reference to Mr. Smalls surname is a--a misnomer, so lets leave it at that. 

 Oh! 

Grams He wanted me to convert 

 What? To convert what? 

Grams To Judaism. 

 Clifton Smalls is Jewish? 

Grams He most certainly is. nifer, I cant do that. I cant turn my back on my faith. 

 Big baby Jesus would have a fit. Im sorry. Blasphemy, whatnot. Come on! You deserve so much better than that. Clifton smalls is a freak. 

Grams Well, thats just it, nifer. Clifton Smalls is not a freak. Clifton smalls... is a wonderful man. 



 Some Apartment Building. Joey and Eddie come walking up to door #34 and begin knocking on the door.



Knocking 

 Audrey, open up. I know youre in there. Audrey

Some guy opens the door and a huge puff of smoke comes out into the halls.

Bob Wheres the food? 

Coughs Who are you? 

Bob Im Bob. 

 Audrey Audrey! Where the hells Audrey? 

Bob Oh, is that the blonde girl? 

 Audrey You spent the night with my friend, and you dont even know her name? 

Bob Well, we didnt really do much talkin, if you know what I mean. We porked. 

 Audrey Where is she?! 

Bob Shes in the crapper. She went in there a while ago. 

Joey goes over to the door of the bathroom and opens it and Eddie comes with her. She sees Audrey lying motionless in the bathtub

 Aah! 

Audrey wakes up and quickly covers herself seeing everyone

 Aah! 

 Aah! 

 Aah! 

 Aah! 

 Aah! 

 Audrey! What are you doing?! 

 Taking a bath! And I fell asleep! What does it look like Im doing?! Joey hands her a robe and she gets out of the tub What the hell is he doin here? I thought you two were splits Ville. 

 Nice to see you, too, Audrey. You didnt show up for rehab. 

 You know, youve really got an eye for the detail. How long have you been on the force, detective? 

 What happened? 

 Hey, is that guy still out there? 

 Bob? 

 Is that his name? Oh, we didnt really do a lot of talking, if you know what I mean. 

 Where did you find him? 

 I was doing karaoke around the corner at some bar, and I did this guns n roses song, and the kid just started worshipping me. 

 Look, thats it. Ive heard enough. Ok? Pack your bags. Lets go. 

 Where? 

 Eddies driving to L.A., And Im gonna take you to rehab. 

 Audrey scoffs Joey... just...dont get all after-school special on me now. I mean, it is sweet and everything, but it kinda gives me dumb chills. Im not goin to rehab. Youre just gonna have to deal with it. 

 Fine! Fine. Dont go to rehab. But at least come with us. I mean, clear your mind or something. I mean, do you really want to be hiding out 

Bob Coughing

 With the likes... 

Bob Coughing 

Bob comes up to join them in the bathroom.

Bob Guys mind if I pee? 

 Ok. Ill come on one condition. I get to bring Bob. 

 No way! 

 Fine. Then Im staying here. 

 You dont even like him. 

 Sure, I do. Hes 21. He can buy us drinks. Bob, Ill have you know, is an outstanding lay. 

Bob I am? 

 Yes, bob, you are. 

Bob Hear that, veronica? Betty thinks Im an outstanding lay. Want a piece? 

 Fine. Bob can come. Get your stuff. Well be in the car. 

Joey and Eddie leave them alone

Bob Mmhh. So, where we goin, baby? 

 Sighs We are goin to L.A. 

Bob Cool. Thats where Ozzy lives. You know, you have really beautiful breasts. And someone should tell you that every day. 

Looks over at Audrey as she is rubbing some lotion on her hands 

Bob Coughs loudly Rub that lotion. 



Commercial Break



 Eddies Jeep. Joey, Eddie, Audrey and Bob have started their trip on the road. Audrey and Bob are asleep in the back seat while Eddie is driving and Joey is staring silently out the window at nothing at all. Joey notices that Eddie keeps looking over at her.



 What? 

 Nothing. Its just you havent said a word in, like, 4 hours. 

 What do you want me to say? 

 Well, for starters, how about, "thank you for helping me out with all this"? 

 Youre the one who said you owed me big time. Besides, its not like its really out of your way or anything. 

 Well, its really more about simple human kindness, Joey. 

 Oh, this from a guy who dropped out of my life without so much as a passive-aggressive e-mail? How does that fit into your definition of "simple human kindness"? 

Audrey stirs awake in thee back seat

 Mmmhhh... where are we? 

 Somewhere in North Carolina. 

 Oh, mama! The south will rise again. Ok, you guys... Yawns loudly This road trip blows! Ok, for starters, the classic rock has gotta go. And secondly, we havent stopped to do anything fun. Its not like were in a rush! We should stop and smell the roses! 

The sound of a loud fart breaks the silence

 Oh, my god. 

 Ohh! 

 Ohh! 

 Ohh! 

 Oh, god!

 Man! What is that? 

The all begin opening windows

 Man! Thats not me. I did not—

 Oh, I am gonna throw up. Gagging 

Bob suddenly wakes up

Bob Whats wrong, sugar? 

 Ohh! 

Bob Ohh! What is that? 

 Its you, you freak! 

Bob Oh. Im sorry. My... my ass was relaxed while I was sleeping. 

he farts again

 Ohh! Ohhh! That is so disgusting! 

 Bob! I cant believe that I slept with you! 

Bob I cant believe it, either, you know. Look, Ive been wantin to talk to you about somethin, ok? You know, when youre done with your whole little, uh, rehab thing, if youre, uh, in the market for a new addiction, I know this drug called b-o-b. 

Chuckles 

Bob But Im, you know, Im sayin I want to make us work, is what Im sayin. 

 All right, well well see about it, buddy. 

Bob Thats cool. Thats really cool. 

 You know, were gonna have to do something about the sex thing, 

Bob What are you talking about? U--you told her I was an outstanding lay. 

 Ehh...it was a little brief. Dont you think? 

Bob Well...you know... you--you--you-- you set one pace. You know, I was givin it nice and slow, and then you went all hellcat on me. I cant-- I cant do that. 

 Oh! So its my fault! 

Bob Well, youre just-- youre just too good. Thats what it is. 



 The movie set. Dawson is setting up a shot through the view finder of the camera., and then looks over some notes. He is about to make a phone call when the female executive that suggested him for the job walks up.



Executive Dawson! How are you? 

 Im great. 

Executive Dont lie to me. 

 Excuse me? 

Executive Dont lie to me. Youre behind, the dailies are weak, was supposed to be 3 days of reshoots, now looks like 5. You have a meltdown on your hands here, Dawson. How you deal with this will define your career. Other than that, keep up the good work, sweetie pie. 

She leaves him alone, and he grabs his phone and begins dialing.

 Todd Carr, please. Its Dawson. Leery. Leery. I trained you, remember? Well, can you try him on his cell phone? Please? Sighs All right, just leave word then. 

He hangs up and  who heard him on the phone walks over to join him.

 Not so easy, is it? 

 What do you mean? 

 Well, obviously you were hoping that Todd would just swoop in and save you. 

 Listen, , I feel like we got off on the wrong foot yesterday. What can I do to make today a more pleasant experience? 

 Well, in lieu of finding me a real director to work with, Id settle for you trying to explain the  to me. 

 What do you wanna know? 

 Well, for starters, youve given Claire this enormous speech that seems to be a whole lot of exposition. 

 Cause it is exposition. We need to explain all the stuff we cut out. 

 Oh. Well, thats all well and good, Dawson, but I think... all that youre shooting for here can be accomplished in a simple look. 

 A look? 

 Between Claire and the killer. 

 A look? 

 Are you retarded, Dawson, cause you seem a little retarded right now? 

 No. I just dont think thats gonna work. 

 Well, you better get used to the idea because Im not saying any of this. 

She storms off and Frank has walked up behind them and is looking through the view finder of the camera, at the shot that Dawson has set up.

Frank So thats your shot? 

 Yeah. What do you think? 

he laughs and walks away, while another older assistant looks at him weird and then back at Dawson who sighs and shakes his head.



Commercial Break



 Gas Station. Joey and Eddie some out of the gas station. Eddie is carrying a bag and a tray full of coffees and Audrey is standing on the hood of the jeep as they walk up to it.



 Hey, you think maybe you could get off there? 

 Why? 

 Because its dangerous. Not to mention, completely disrespectful. 

 What are you talking about? This cars a piece of crap. 

 Im sure it pales in comparison to whatever trendy little BMW you have waiting for you back in 90210-land, but this is all I have. 

 Well, then I guess it sucks to be you, huh? 

 Its wrong to hit girls, right? 

 Sadly, yes. 

 Thats what I thought. Just checking. 

 Hey, you know, Eddie. I bet youre gonna look really hot pumping gas. Maybe that should be your next career move. 

 Audrey, youre not funny.

She hops down and walks towards the passenger side of the jeep

 I am many things, Joey Potter, but not funny is not one of them. 

 You should really lay off of him. I know you cant see it right now, but hes actually doing you a huge favor. 

 You know, since when are you in such a rush to defend blue collar Robby? And didnt he basically just reveal himself as a major league scum sucker with his little disappearing act? He bailed on you. Not exactly behavior becoming the worlds best boyfriend now, is it? 

Eddie sets the coffee and bag on the top of the car, while Joey is putting her cell phone back into her coat pocket

 Who were you just talking to? 

 When? 

 Just now on your cell. 

 Oh. I was just checking my messages. 

 Oh. Well, can I use it because I gotta make a call? 

 Sure. 

Audrey grabs her phone and hits the button to get the last number dialed

 Well, pants on fire, Joey. 

 What? 

 You were talking to my mom. 

 Shes worried about you, Audrey. 

 Im not going to rehab, ok? I already told you that. And if shes so worried about me, then where the hell is she? I mean did she fly out here when she heard that I was in trouble? No. She put me on a plane. And you wanna know something? Youre no better. 

 What? 

 This little road trip idea of yours, it certainly makes for a handy-dandy excuse to spend some quality time with your working class hero, now, doesnt it, Joey? 

 You know what? Youre very wrong about that. 

 I dont think so. You--why dont you just have the guts to tell me the truth? Stop wrapping it up in noble intentions because this isnt about me...clearly. Its about him. 

Audrey opens the car door 

Bob Hey, dont break the seal. Dont break the seal! 

Audrey gets into the jeep, while Joey goes over to Eddie who is still filling up the gas tank

 Im sorry. Audreys a mess. Im... starting to think that maybe this wasnt such a good idea. 

 Well, dont worry about it. Besides, its a hell of a lot more interesting than going alone. 

Engine starts 

 Yo! 

Audrey and bob drive off in the jeep, ripping the gas hose off the tank as they drive off. Joey and Eddie just stand there in shock



 The Help Center.  and CJ are sitting at their desks waiting for calls, but they are not getting any. CJ is reading a book to pass the time, but  is obviously bored.



 What is wrong? 

CJ Nothing. What do you mean? 

 The phones arent ringing. Its freaking me out. 

CJ Why? Cant you enjoy the peace and quiet for a change? 

 Maybe my Grams will call. 

CJ How is she? 

 I found her this morning staring at the phone, listening to Lionel Ritchie, just waiting for the phone to ring. Its breaking my heart. 

CJ I know the drill. My, uh, uncle Bill, his wife died about a year ago, he was devastated. I mean, they were just like Ozzy and Sharon. 

 Is he seeing anyone? 

CJ No. No. He just discovered the internet. So the multitude of porno choices takes up most of his time. 

 Hah. Sure. We should set them up. 

CJ Hah. Yeah, right. 

 You laugh. Im serious. 

CJ Yeah. I laugh. Cause my uncle Bill, hes, uh... hes not like most people. 

 So, neither is my Grams. Shes a freak. Shes a thoroughly lovable freak, but shes a freak, nonetheless. Oh, come on, itll be fun. I call my Grams, you talk to your uncle Will.

CJ Bill. 

 Bill. 



 The side of a road. Eddie and Joey are walking down the road, and Eddie is trying to hitchhike a ride. While Joey walks slowly behind him.



 Hey. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. 

the car drives by without slowing down

 Thank you. You know, maybe you should try this. 

 Im not gonna shake my ass just to get a ride. 

 I didnt say you had to, but if you felt it was important to the task, well, that would be ok, too. 

another car approaches

 Hey! Whistles 

yet again the car does not stop

 How can you joke at a time like this? 

 What do you expect? What are we gonna do? I mean, this is ridiculous. You try to help someone, your car gets stolen, and youre stuck on the side of the road with someone who hates you. 

 I dont hate you, Eddie, ok? Its just this wasnt the plan. I mean, were supposed to be over, you and me, done. Kaput. 

 Ah, I see, so youre saying its not over.

 I dont want to talk about that. I want to talk about Audrey. 

 Fine. Lets talk about Audrey. 

 I cant figure out how to help her. I mean, I keep trying all different angles, but nothing seems to work. 

 You cant help her, Jo. That girl doesnt want anyones help. 

 Youre probably right. Im just having a hard time letting her go. I mean, you know, believe it or not, she wasnt this psycho. I mean, yeah, shes always been psycho, but in a good way. 

 Well, youre a good friend. I mean, thats why youre here. Thats what friends do for each other, right? 

 What are you getting out of it? 

 Isnt that obvious? I get to spend some time with you. 

 I dont know about the whole friend thing. Maybe Audreys right.

 What do you mean? 

 Well, she thinks that... this road trip isnt about her at all. Its really about me. 

 Ok. How does that work? 

 Because Im having trouble letting you go, too. 

 Jo—

 Which I know--its, its stupid and really sad, actually, because youve made it painfully clear how you feel about me. And yet, Im just prolonging the inevitable, glutton for punishment. 

 Well... I guess I havent made it clear how I feel about you. This is probably gonna sound, gonna sound cheesy, but... Ive never cared about anyone the way I care about you. But its too late. I screwed up. But the way I feel about you? I love you, Joey. 

 Youre right. It did sound cheesy. Cause you know what, Eddie? I cant for the life of me figure out how loving somebody translates into leaving them behind. 



 The movie set. Dawson walks over to a trashcan and leans over it, almost like he is ready to get sick.  was sitting near by smoking a cigarette and Dawson didnt even see her.



 Exhales 

 What, are you getting sick or something? 

 Sighs You dont even care, , so dont bother asking. 

 Well, I never wanted you to puke your guts out over all this. 

 Well, I guess thats what happens when you watch your entire lifes ambition disappear in front of your eyes. 

 Look, youve directed before, right? 

 Yeah, but it didnt bear the slightest resemblance to this experience. 

 Exactly. Youre not back home making some silly little movie with your silly little friends. This is a whole different world with its own code of conduct. Here, you are not entitled to anyones respect or admiration. You have to earn it. Hey, you are guilty until proven competent. You walk around like a deer in the headlights, you will get run down. Simple as that. And this whole puking thing, its... its unacceptable. Ok? If someone asks, say you have the flu or something.

 Thanks. 

 Yeah, well... dont thank me. Just get your act together. 



 A fancy restaurant. , CJ, Grams and Bill are all sitting down at a table together getting ready to eat.



Bill So... Evelyn, what is it A... beautiful woman like yourself does for fun? 

Grams Well... every so often, I do like to go to Las Vegas... and gamble. 

Bill Outstanding. I love Vegas. 

Grams Hmm. Its delightful, isnt it? You know, every month or so, my church group plans a trip. 

Bill Ohh. 

Grams What? 

Bill Nothing. Its--its just... dont tell me youre one of those religious broads. 

Grams Well, I, uh, I certainly would describe myself as religious, yes, but I would appreciate it if you would not refer to me as a broad. 

Bill Why not? 

Grams Its demeaning to women. 

Bill Oh, no, its not. I called my wife a broad at least twice a day for 42 years. 

Grams How lovely for her. 

 sees this as her time to try and break the tension in the air.

 So anyone seen any good movies? 

Bill Holy Moses! 

CJ What? 

Bill I think theres a pubic hair in my soup. Take a look at this. Does that look like a pubic hair to you? 

CJ Uncle bill, just, uh... 

Bill Ok, maybe its not one, but its definitely some kind of hair. Antisocial perverts. 

Grams Muttering Disgusting. 

Bill All right, lady, whats your problem? 

Grams Excuse me? 

Bill Well, youre a real downer. I mean, youre sitting here, staring into your soup, and every once in a while, you mumble some derisive comment, when you should be going to see your doctor. 

Grams What are you talking about? Why should I go see my doctor? 

Bill So he can remove that polar icecap you got wedged up your butt. 

Grams Oh...

Grams leans her head down

 Grams? 

 thinks Grams is crying, but in actuality she is laughing and it become obvious when she breaks out laughing and everyone follows suit. 





 The movie set. Dawson comes walking out to the set that they are getting ready to shoot on, and sees Frank sitting behind the camera looking at the shot, and then he notices that the whole set has been changed around. He looks around at everyone, seeing everyone looking at him including the female executive from earlier. Dawson walks over and waves his hand in front of the cameral lens to get Franks attention. Frank has taken it upon him self to take control.



 Hey. 

Frank What do you need, kid? 

 This isnt the shot we talked about. I know. 

Frank The shot we talked about was lame. This one kicks ass. 

Camera assistant laughs 

Frank Hey, just move. 

Dawson sees the assistant that was there earlier and looked weird at Franks first outburst at Dawson

 Can I ask you something? Could you D.P. This shoot? 

Man What? 

 Could you D.P. This shoot? 

Man Well, in theory, yeah. 

 Excellent. Frank! 

Frank Yeah? 

 Youre fired. 

Frank What? 

 You heard me. Youre fired. 

Frank Youre kidding me, right? 

The camera assistant laughs again

 Youre next. Anyone else want to get fired? Huh? Anyone? All right, were starting over. Allow me to introduce myself. My name is Dawson Leery, and Im the director here. If anyone has a problem with that, get the hell off my set and stop wasting my time. , this is the script. Familiarize yourself with it because unless you want to keep all these good people away from their families, youre gonna say every single word thats on those pages, and I could care less whether you agree with them or not. Are we clear? Good. All right, people, lets move! Cause I will fire you, and I will humiliate you, and I will do it well because I learned from the master. 

He goes and emphatically sits in the directors chair, and the Executive walks over to him.

Executive You have no idea how close you were to getting fired. 



 A bar at the side of the road. Audrey is on stage singing Karaoke and Bob is passed out at one of the tables near by



 ...A time there was light in my life but now theres only love in the dark theres nothin I can do a total eclipse of my heart 

Cheering and applause 

she walks down over to Bob, and sees that her beer is empty.

 Oh, Bob, we hardly knew ye. 

she walks over to the bar to get another. And a guys sitting there is staring at her.

 Hey, can I get another one, please? 

Man That was tasty, baby. 

 Well, thank you. That is a very tasty haircut you got there, if you dont mind me saying. 

Man Yeah. Chicks dig the hair. Where you from? 

 Not really from these parts. 

Man Cool. Hey, uh, you wanna check out my ride? 

 Ok. But I just want you to know, Im only going cause I think that my boyfriend over there is gonna get a kick out of the story later. 

Man Kinky. 

they go outside and see he monster truck outside

 Well, this is one hell of a pick-up truck you got there, chief. And kudos to you, man, for not skimping on the monster truck tires. Rock on, dude. 

she turns to walk back inside, but he stops her

Man Hey, hey, hey, where you goin? Why dont you climb on in, check out the stereo? I got the new Metallica. 

 Well, that is a tempting offer, but I should really go check on my boyfriend. 

she turns to leave again and he grabs her arm.

Man Aw, come on, huh? Let the poor guy sleep. 

 No, I dont think so. 

Man Just give me one little kiss, huh? Just a little kiss? 

 You know, youre really a charmer, really, but, actually, I just-- I cant. Because, actually, Im a really bad kisser. You know? The worst. Like, Im in all the books. 

Man The way you were shaking your money-maker up there on stage, I could give a damn how you kiss. 

 Ok, now youre just getting rude. 

Man Hey, all I care about is getting naked with you. Not so fast. 

she tries to pull away, but he doesnt let go. She kicks him in the groin and he falls to the ground and she continues to kick him while he is down on the ground. At the same time Joey and Eddie come walking up to the bar and see Audrey kicking the guy.

 Is that Audrey? 

 God! 

they run over to her.

 What do you think gives you the right to do this to me?! 

Eddie pulls Audrey off of the guy 

 That enough now.

 Audrey! Audrey! 

 Sobbing Im so sorry, Joey. 

Joey pulls Audrey to her

 Ok. Its ok. Dont worry. 

 I think Im ready to go to rehab. 



Commercial Break



 Outside the Lindley house. , Grams, CJ and Bill are walking up to the house after their dinner together.



Bill Want a vampire, Evelyn, I dont know about you, but Im not ready to call it a night. 

Grams Well... would you be taking a walk with an old fool? 

Bill Surely, Id love to. 

Grams and Bill walk off together.

 Wow. 

CJ I dont know what to say. 

 Maybe I didnt have such a half-bad idea after all, hmm? 

CJ Yeah, I gotta hand it to you,  Lindley. Youre a genius. 

 Mmm. 

CJ No, seriously, I havent seen that old man have so much fun in years. 

 Ah, if only I were such a genius in the rest of my life. 

CJ What does that mean? 

 As Im sure youre already only painfully aware, Im not half as good at figuring out my own love life. 

CJ Aw, come on, you dont do that bad. 

 The last boy I liked slept with my friend. 

CJ You know, the one thing I can say about that is that if I knew you then the way that I do now, that wouldnt have happened. 

 How come? 

CJ Because I couldnt bear the thought of hurting somebody so amazing. 

 You think Im amazing? 

CJ Pretty much. 

He tries to kiss her, but she pulls away

CJ Yeah. I deserve that. I do. Its, uh... 

 smiles

 I was just kidding. 

She kisses him and they continue kissing as the camera pulls away.



 The movie set. They have just finished shooting their , and Dawson stands up from his directors chair.



 And cut! Check the gate. Everyone, thank you for a great day! Thats a wrap! 

He sits back down in the directors chair as everyone begins to disperse.  walks up behind him and begins massaging his shoulders.

 Mmm. Sorry I had to yell at you. 

 Dont be sorry. Kinda turned me on, actually. So, you want to go get a drink or something? 



 Outside Audreys House. They finally pull up in the jeep, and come to a stop. They all stare at the house for a second



 Audrey, I had no idea. 

 Yeah. Kinda tacky, I know. The one in Malibus much nicer. 

They begins to get out of the car, and Eddie begins taking her bags out.

 Ooh. Ok, so, listen, I would give you a tip, but I only have hundreds, so... ok, I was kidding that time. 

 What, as opposed to the 450 other times? 

 Well, then I was just being a bitch. Im sorry about that, by the way. This hasnt exactly been the best year for new people to get to know me. 

 Yeah, well, once you get past the obnoxiousness and the petty bitchery, youre not so bad, you know? Youre kinda funny, Audrey. 

 Well, youre not so bad yourself, Eddie Doling. 

 Thats not what your friend over there thinks. 

 You kidding? Of course she does. Why do you think this is so hard for her? She might not want to give you the satisfaction of knowing this, but youre gonna go down in the books as one of the great loves of Joey Potters life, which, trust me, doesnt suck. 

 No. It most certainly does not. 

Joey looks up at the house and then back to Audrey as Audrey comes walking over to her.

 Do you want me to come in with you? 

 No. I should face the firing squad by myself. So...listen. I would say thank you and Im sorry and all that, but Ive said it before, and I dont want to insult you with empty words, so Im just gonna try and get this thing under control. You know? Its gonna be hard because first I gotta figure out why Im so friggin unhappy. 

 Come here. They hug When you do, you know, please remember how everyone in bean town loves you to death. 

 Laughs 

 What? 

 Nothing. I mean, its just... you know, who wouldve thought that the skinny, uptight prude I met at the beginning of my freshman year would be my best friend in the whole world? Now, as for you, young lady... 

 Yeah? 

 Its time, you know. Joey, you have to let him go. Come here. 

They hug and Eddie comes walking over to them

 Ok, we staying or going? Cause I got an appointment at that school. 

 No, youre going, all of you. 

Audrey turns to try and wake up Bob who is asleep in the back seat of the car.

 Bob. 

Pounds on roof of car 

Bob Are we there yet? 

 Uh, yes, bob, were here. 

 What are we gonna do about him? 

 I dont know. suddenly Audrey has a big idea Ohh! Wait, I have an idea. Come on, bob, you got some work to do. You and I stopped in Vegas, we got married. 

Bob We did?

 No, but thats what were gonna tell my parents. Itll freak em out, take their mind off the other thing. 

Bob Can we have sex again? 

 No. 

Bob What kind of honeymoon is that? I need to work on my hang time, sugar. 

 Ok, maybe. Im not promising anything. 

 Good luck. 

 Thanks. 

 Bye, guys. 



 Dawsons Place. Dawson comes walking into the bedroom after taking a shower, and sees  packing her bag.



 Hey. You outta here? 

 Yeah, I have an audition. 

 All right. Good luck... or whatever. 

 Thanks. The last couple of days have been great, Dawson, but I have auditions and meetings coming up, and... 

 Dont worry about it. 

 Well, maybe in a couple of weeks when things are less crazy, we can—

 , its ok. 

 Really? 

 Yeah. Lets not be those people who make false promises to each other when they both know the truth. 

 Which is what?

 That you were right all along. This is about sex, which is not the worst thing in the world. I just wasnt used to it. Every relationship Ive ever had, Ive taken so damn seriously, I think I just forgot how to have fun. 

 Well, Im glad I came along to remind you. 

 Me, too. 

 We will meet again, you know? 

 Oh, yeah?

 Yeah. Youll be directing some big movie and be kind enough to throw me a bone and cast me, then well have another fabulous whirlwind romance, which will totally screw up both of our marriages, but itll be totally worth it. 

 That sounds about right, except the part about me directing a big movie one day. 

 Youll get there, Dawson. I have a feeling out you. Which makes me wonder if I was wrong about us. Because the other day, watching you take control of the movie, I dont think Ive ever been so proud of anyone in my life. Then again, I could have just been turned on by your vulgar display of authority. Its been lovely. Thank you. 

 My pleasure. 

 Oh, and just so you know, there will be other actresses. But I s the first, and dont you forget it. 

 Oh, wont. I promise. 



 The beach outside of the California School Campus. Joey and Eddie are walking along the walkway hand in hand, while admiring the beautiful ry.



 So what do you think? 

 Its beautiful. Its amazing. Its... its freaking me out. 

 Why? 

 You gotta understand, Jo, I mean, this is a world so far removed from anything that I know, that I cant even-- I cant even process it. 

 That doesnt mean that you dont belong here. 

 Right, so I guess I should just ignore the urge to get back in the car and drive to Boston? 

 Yes. 

 Yes? 

 Yes. As much as I really want you to do just that. Youre gonna be great, Eddie. I mean, a whole new world is about to open up for you. And if that doesnt work, you can always go back to pretending youre a student. 

 You know, I was thinking about what you said, about how hard it is to say good-bye, and I was thinking, well, maybe we shouldnt... say good-bye. 

 How do we do that? 

 We make a plan to meet somewhere. 

 When? 

 Um, I dont know. Say, what, a year from now? 

 You know, a lot can happen in a year. Youre probably gonna meet some willowy blonde poet chick, and before you know it, Joey Potter will just be some drama queen you knew when. 

 No, not gonna happen. 

 No? 

 No

 So where we gonna meet? 

 What about Paris, huh? I mean, youve never been to Paris, right? 

 No. 

 Well, we need to do something about that. Paris shouldnt be something you could have done once upon a time. 

 Its a very nice daydream. 

 You know, it doesnt have be. 

 Well, Mr. Doling, if, um... if something happens and we dont make it to Paris... I want you to know Im not gonna forget you. You might just be the sweetest, nicest surprise thats ever happened to me. I guess thats my way of saying... I love you, too. If you dont mind, Im gonna keep on loving you for as long as I can. 



They hug for a very long time and then kiss one another very passionately for a very long time. The Cameras fade from one shot to another as they continue to kiss in one anothers embrace as the day goes on and it begins getting darker, until the camera finally pulls away from them, and fades to black.

 The Electronics Store.  and Jack are staring at something off screen, and practically drooling while Joey is standing behind them shaking her head

 Sniffles My god, she is gorgeous. 

 Even I can appreciate that. 

 Sighs And this one, she knows how to turn on the fun. You know what I mean? 

 Can you afford her? 

 Please, Jack, do not tarnish this moment with talk of money. 

 Im just saying—

 I must have her, therefore I can afford her. Her... and all of her little toys, too. 

Camera pulls back showing us that they are staring at a large screen TV

 Breathes deeply 

 What are you guys even gonna do with something this big? I mean, its kind of grotesque, not to mention the fact that Emmas gonna freak out when you drag this through the living room. 

 Joey, dont be jealous just because she can do things that no man has ever known before. 

 Ok, now youre disturbing me. Its a television that looks like it ate a small country. This is the most blatant display of capitalism Ive ever seen. 

 Dont be threatened by something you dont understand, Joey. Im gonna go get the sales guy. 

Jack seeing  staring at the screen and nodding runs off to get the sales person

 Arent there better things you can be doing with your money? 

 What, like funding your drug habit? 

 Now were talking. Gratuitous purchases aside, Im very impressed with you, Pace. 

 Hey, you put any fool in a suit and he can change the world. Just look at trading places. 

 Its not the suits, and its not the high-tech toys. Its how you got yourself to this place. I mean, look how far youve come. 

 Not too far, I hope. 

 Are you really worried about that? 

 Of course. Id like to think that I could get back to being the person I used to be, because, in my opinion, he was actually a pretty good guy. 

 You still are, . , Youve always been this madcap genius just waiting for potential to kick in. It just so happened to kick into overdrive. Im very proud of you. 

 Thank you. That means a lot coming from you, Jo. 

 But... if you think Im gonna sit in your apartment and pay homage to that thing, youre sorely mistaken. 

 You gotta come tonight. Its not a party without you, you know that. 

 I know. Believe me, Im coming. I mean, Im in dire need of cheer and libations after Eddie up and decided to make something of himself. 

 Yeah, you gotta quit with the whole supportive and inspirational thing. It doesnt work for ya. I mean, seriously, whats up with that? Now dont make me regret all of my sentimental pride. 

 I wont. 

 So long as you come tonight. Itll be good for your soul, and it really would mean a lot to me if you could just accept her... Looks back at the TV As one of our own.

 Oh, god. Clothes dont fool me. Same old lovable punk. Im gonna go check out the iPods. 



Opening Credits



Commercial Break



 s Apartment. The TV is being delivered and  is showing them where to put it. Jack and  are there to see the great unveiling



 Back wall, guys. 

 Back Here. Back here. Back here. Directing the delivery guys

 Ohhh. She is awesome. Were gonna pray to her every night. 

 Its a box, jack. Its a big box, and since when have you been so interested in big boxes? 

 Since  here started sharing the wealth. 

 This is not gonna bring you happiness, you know. 

 Oh, I beg to differ. See, Davids here right now to check out the TV. 

 Oh, so, what, youre gonna get lucky with the television? 

David comes into the apartment and walks over to join them by the TV

 Hi. 

 Hey. 

 Hey. 

 Holy big-screen, batman. You were right. It is beautiful. 

 Have you boys no concern for the general aesthetic quality of your surroundings? This thing is so big, it could block the sun. 

 Spare me the manifesto, Lindley. The quality of life just went up 10 points in here. Would ya just... give the old girl a chance? Im sure that she will impress you with her skills. The--the strength of the sound that comes from her, it just-- it feels like its enveloping your whole body. 

 Oh, is Emmas band playing tonight? I didnt know that. 

 No. The TV. Love the TV. Touch the TV. 

 Ahh. Moving on. Next subject. Why are you having this party anyway? I mean, you and jack have been living here in private squalor for months now. 

 Squalor. Interesting. Well, works been going well, and, uh, I just wanted to spread the joy. 

 So, listen, Im bringing  To this party. 

 Sighs , The dude from the concert. 

 Yes, , The dude from the concert, whose face you introduced to the brick wall, which leads me to my next point-- could you possibly not punch him tonight? 

 I would never. 

 Well, thats reassuring. Um, but Im gonna go now, and when I return, I will have , And I will have ice. Ice, which is for drinks, not for boys broken faces. 

 Thanks for the clarification. 

, leaves and runs into Emma and some guy walking into the apartment.

 Hey. See ya later tonight. 

 Ta. 

 Emma. 

 Laughs Oh, what in the queens name is that? 

 That is tonights entertainment and every glorious night thereafter. 

 This is bertha. Isnt she pretty?

 No. She is not pretty. She is an oversized hag whos taking up my practice space. 

 Dont talk about bertha like that. We can discuss rearranging later. 

Jack looks at the very unkempt person that came into the apartment with Emma and is standing in the kitchen.

 What--what-- what in the queens name is that? 

 Laughs Oh. Sorry. Um... thats Gus. 

 Oh. 

 My fiancé. 

Everyone suddenly stops what they were doing and looks at her and then to Gus. Who belches.



 The rehab center. Dawson walks in and goes over to the receptionist desk. The receptionist looks up from her clipboard to see is she can help him



Receptionist How can you help yourself today? 

 Ha ha. Um, actually Im here to—

Audrey sees Dawson and runs over to greet him

 Dawson leery, you are a sight for sober eyes. Hi! 

 Its good to see you, too. 

 Oh, I thought you were gonna think my message was a joke. 

 You sounded a little too desperate for it to be a joke. 

 Oh, well, thanks for not flaking, cause I kinda woulda deserved that. she begins to fake sneeze Ah-choo! Ah-choo! Ah-choo! Oh, but please tell me that you brought me some Nyquil cause I can just not shake this pesky cold. 

Receptionist The first step to getting better is allowing yourself to admit that youre sick. 

 Thanks, Betty. Ok, well, its cool that you forgot the Nyquil, well deal with that later, but please, for the love of Joey Potter, tell me that you brought me something to read. A Jane magazine, hell, Id even settle for Martha anything. Anything but the bible, although it was pretty cool the first time around. People steal a lot of material from the bible. Have you ever noticed that? 

They quickly make their way to a poolside at the rehab center to talk

 Are you ok, Audrey? 

 Yeah. You know, truth be told, Ive been...smoking a lot more than the average girl, well, more than the average girl without an eating disorder. You know, they kind of encourage that here. cause, like, thats not gonna kill you or anything. Anyway...bygones. You ok, Dawson? 

 Uh, well, sorta. Ive been living in Todds guesthouse for the past 2 weeks, which has been its own kind of sobriety nightmare. Uh, wicked dead is going straight to cable, which means Todd wont be directing anything in the near future and I probably wont ever get another shot at this rate. 

 Yeah. Im in rehab, Dawson. 

 Laughs 

 Did you really not bring me any magazines? 

 Im sorry, I—

Dawson looks over and sees someone he recognizes trying to get a soda out of the machine but it is not cooperating.

 Do you know who that is? 

 Yeah. Its the broad I lost my cigarettes to last night in poker game. I really dont want to talk about it. 

 Thats Toni Stark. Shes a phenomenally successful producer. She used to work for Spielbergs production company, then she left to start her own. Shes like a modern Hollywood legend. 

 Oh, well, finding those is like shooting fish in a barrel here, so dont blow your wad on one sighting, ok, tiger? 

 Do you-- I mean, do you think I could like talk to her? I mean--I mean, Id love to talk to her, but I dont-- I dont know. Shes got this reputation for being like a renowned harpy. You know, likes to eat well-meaning types for breakfast. 

 Well, thats probably her drunken reputation. I mean, shes got no ammo here, but, hello, what about me? You know, youre like the only person whos been cool enough to come visit me here, and now youre gonna ditch me? 

 Im sorry. Youre right. Youre absolutely right. Lets-- lets work through what got you here in the first place. 

 No. Lets stalk the burn-out. 



 Outside , Jack and Emmas apartment. CJ and  come walking up to the door carrying some bags of ice, when CJ starts to get nervous



CJ Whose party did you say this was? 

 I didnt. Funny, that. Lets go in.

CJ Wait. Wait. Wait. Wait. Come on now. Im not one for surprises. 

 Ok, its my friend s party. 

CJ Pa--that dude from the concert? 

 Yes, the dude from the concert, the one who introduced your face to a brick wall. 

CJ I got a better idea. Why dont we go in there, drop off the ice, go to a movie. 

 These are some of my best friends, and if you and I are gonna do this, youre gonna have to get to know them sooner or later, so lets just do it, please? 

They go inside the apartment and the first thing you see is a lot of people and a very large TV

 Hello there. 

CJ Nice television. 

 See? I told you it wasnt gonna be so bad.

They take off their coats and make their way into the party.



 In the Kitchen. Joey and  are in the kitchen talking together about the party. Joey is filling up a bowl with chips as  is raiding the refrigerator



 Quite the shindig, pace. Im impressed. 

 Why, thank you. I owe it all to bertha. 

 Please tell me you didnt name the television. 

 Ok. You want a drink? We have... water, juice, coke, the green gunk that Emma drinks, beer—

 Mm, gimme a drink. Something fruity and mind-numbing. 

 looks Shocked

 Dont gimme that look. 

 What look? 

 Like youre going to ask me who I am and what Ive done to Joey Potter. 

He pulls out some orange juice and cranberry juice, and grabs the vodka and begins mixing Joey a drink

 I was gonna do no such thing. I was simply gonna make you a drink. And may I say that you look wonderful tonight. 

 Thank you. I thought it was time for a shower. 

 Laughs You know, I heard that things havent been going so great for you lately, but I have confidence that youre gonna get through this because you always do. 

 Hmm. You know, Ill always be the one to wake up early, take the exam, get over the boy, drive the roommate to rehab, right? Cause somebodys gotta do all that, right? You know what? Maybe tomorrow I wont do it and somebody else will. 

 So just what would you do instead? 

 What is this instead you speak of? 

 Well... this is a fairly safe place for you, right? So feel free. Enjoy yourself. 

 All right. Thats the plan. All bets are off. 

She grabs the bottle of vodka and pours more into her drink



Commercial Break



 The couch in front of the big TV. Joey is obviously starting to get drunk, and she is sitting on the couch talking with David.



  Laughing  You know, I just keep wondering... when hes gonna return to his art. I mean, he was really quite talented. 

 Mm-hmm. Really? I had no idea he was into that sort of thing. 

 Mm-hmm. 

 Really? 

 Oh, my gosh. Thats what brought us together in the first place. Well... before. I mean, youll think this is funny, but... jack... when I first met him... mm-hmm. He was... shy and kinda dorky. Seriously. Laughs I mean, to be honest, I never wouldve known he liked me, except for... there was that one time I was sketching him for class... he got excited. Waaaaah. 

 No. 

 Laughing 



 The rehab center. Audrey and Dawson are stalking the producer, and see her go over and sit down at a small table outside, and grab a magazine.



 Ooh, Dawson, go do it now. 

 Do what? I dont remember coming up with a plan. 

 Just friggin go do it! 

Audrey shoved him over towards her, and he shyly makes his way over to talk to her.

 Slim pickins, huh? 

Toni Entertainments sure tough to come by around here. What do you do for fun? 

 Me? I just got here. 

Toni Well, Id be glad to show you the ropes, um... 

 Dawson. Dawson Leery. 

She shakes his hand and then doesnt release it, rather she begins to caress it with her other hand.

Toni You got nice hands, Dawson Leery. Im Toni Stark. 

 I know who you are. Youre...a genius. 

Toni Yeah. Something like that. 

 Im sorry. You probably came here for privacy. 

Toni No. Actually I came here to stop having fun, but I love hearing how great I was... 10 years ago. You put it that way, you sound like you were a flash in the pan. 

 So are we gonna go somewhere or what? 

Toni Um... Laughs I...uh, Im sorry. Look, the thing is Im starting out in the industry—

 Listen, baby bird, its bad enough teasing a drying-out broad with your naughty bits, but its worse to try and talk about the business with somebody whos currently out of it. See ya around. 

Toni leaves, and Audrey comes walking up trying to contain her laughter, but is failing miserably.

 Laughs Oh, my god. Dawson! 

 Sighs 

 You are helpless



 The Apartment Kitchen.  is looking through the refrigerator, when David comes walking up behind her and reaches in and grabs a drink.



 Hey, hope youre not looking for anything of nutritional value. 

 No. No. Sighs No. No. Just lookin. So its a good party, huh? I think its a good party. All these different types of people mixing and what not, and—and theres been no punching in of S face. Thats good. I like that. 

 You seem a little jumpy. Do you, uh, want a beer or something? 

 No, Im goin the clean and sober route tonight, takin one for the  Team. 

 He doesnt mind it when other people drink. 

 Its nothing. Its just easier this way. 

 What, lying? 

 No, its not lying, I mean, its just--its-- and you know what, and its probably really good for me, too. 

 comes up and reaches over them to grab a beer out of the door of the refrigerator

 Hey. 

 Hi. How are ya, slugger? 

 Dont worry. Everythings fine. 

 Yeah, I noticed the lack of fisticuffs. Thank you for being nice to him. 

 Its actually easier than I thought it would be cause it turns out hes a pretty good guy. So we kissed, we made up, I offered him a drink, and everythings been ok. 

 He refused, right, when you offered him the drink? 

 No, of course not. Who does that? 

 Oh, god. Alcoholics. Recovering alcoholics tend not to drink. 

 Whats with all the under-age alcoholics around here? Ok. I got it. Im on damage control, and have you seen Joey? 



 Elsewhere at the party. Joey and CJ are leaning against a wall talking to one another. Joey is drunkenly rambling on again, rather than a full out conversation.



 You know,  I just--I really think its great how youve turned  around. Because before, believe me, I mean, she was-- she was a troubled young lady.

CJ So she says. 

 She killed a girl once. 

CJ What? 

 Abby Morgan. Killed her with champagne. You want some?

She holds up her glass of champagne to him

CJ No. 

 Do you want some? 

CJ No. No. Im--Im-- this is--Im-- oooh. 

 seeing her trying to push alcohol on him quickly intervenes

 Laughs Hey, there you are. So... what do you say we leave the nice man alone now, shall we? 

 grabs her drink, and then pulls Joey next to him

 About that thing earlier, Im sorry, I didnt know. 

CJ What? 



 In another room. Possibly where Emma Sleeps. Joey and  enter the room and take a seat on the bed trying to get away from the crowd for a minute

 Thank you. 

 Youre welcome. 

She takes here drink back and sits down

 He seems like a nice guy. What does  Stand for? 

 Couldnt tell ya. 

 Ah, I hope those kids work it out. 

 Hmm. 

 . Everybodys working it out.  and , You know, that British girl and that gross guy. Im just no good at this. I just-- I push people away. 

 No, thats not true. 

 Oh, no? Then why do they go out to sea or move across country or follow their dreams just because I told them to? Theres always something better out there than me. 

Begins to get a tear in her eye

 Whoa. I think, perhaps youre looking at this the wrong way. Maybe its just that youre such an amazing woman, you make these guys wanna be better men. 

 Well, were not together. 

 True enough. Chuckles Yeah. Sighs Yeah. 

 Well, dont you look so glum. Were talking about my sucky life. Yours is a success. 

She tries to push his mouth into a smile with her fingers

 Oh. I forgot. Youre still not over me. 

 Chuckles Really? 

 Oh, remember? Christmas dinner from hell? That was one of Audreys enlightened comments.

 Right. Of course. 

 Youre still not over me. That must suck. 

 Oh, it does. You have no idea the hardships I go through trying to maintain a friendship with a dream girl such as yourself. You have no idea. 

 Gets lonely. 

 It does. I cry myself to sleep every night, but Jack and I cuddle. That eases the pain. Hes very loving. 

 Laughs Oh, Pace. You know what? I am a good catch. 

She gets up and walks out of the room, and  just watches her go, agreeing to himself.



Commercial Break



 A montage of s from the party. Including all of the character of the show doing many different thing. CJ and  talking. Gus trying to hit on Emma but her pulling away. Joey drinking. Jack and David talking.  and others. Many people around a keg. More Joey drinking.  and Joey having a great time together.



 The couch in front of the TV. Jack, Emma and Gus are sitting on the couch talking together. Gus on one end, Jack on the other, and Emma in the middle of them.



 I--I dont understand. I mean, when did you stop going to school? 

 Um... the end of the semester. The bands really taking off, jack, and I just-- I couldnt keep up with the requirements. When am I gonna need to know the origin of the baroque period anyway? Its totally lacking inspiration. 

Gus Totally. 

 Ahem. So, Gus... you still in school? 

Gus No need. Im gonna be a roadie for the little lady. 

 Laughs No. No. Hes just saying that. No. Hes actually, um, a very brilliant pianist. He, um, plays in a pool hall on--on Thursday nights. Its really good stuff. 

They look over to Gus who is pulling something off the bottom of his shoe

Gus Wicked. 

 Yeah. Ok, um... are you sure you thought this marriage thing through? I mean, no offense, Gus, we just met tonight, but uh, its movin awful quickly. 

 Yeah, thats sort of the point, Jack. My visa ran out as soon as I quit school, which means I have no right to be here unless I... marry some Yankee bastard. Actually Gus has been very agreeable about the whole thing. Havent ya, Gus? 

Gus Right on, baby mama. 

 So Im going to go, um, fetch something to drink. Can I get something for anyone? 

Gus Yeah, Id like a-- Id like a beer. 

 Ok. 

Gus And maybe some chips. And maybe, uh... mash the chips up inside a sandwich. 

 Ok. 

Emma goes into the kitchen leaving them alone

 So... Gus, did ya just, you know, offer your services to her, cause, you know, its a big sacrifice just, you know, gettin married this young and all. So—

Gus Yeah, I was led to believe that having other women in the bedroom wouldnt exactly be off limits. Plus, its nice compensation. 

 What do you mean? 

Gus Free room and board, man. Plus, she said shed cook for me. 

 Uh... yeah, you know, shes not exactly a cook. Um... she just throws stuff in a blender, and then she just kinda hopes—

Gus Whatever, man. Shes got a nice rack. 

 Yeah, she—

Emma comes back and hands Gus a sandwich and a beer.

 Say, uh, are you two getting to know each other? 

 Unfortunately. 

Gus Yeah, no, your old mans cool. Doesnt even seem all that gay. 

Jack looks at him angrily for a sec, then decides not to do anything. Emma takes a big drink out of the bottle of champagne she has

 Yeah. Ok. Um... see you kids later. Im just going to—

Jack goes to get up, but Emma grabs his shoulder and forces his to sit back down

 Stay right here. 

The camera pulls away, but Emma never lets go of Jacks shoulder preventing him from leaving.



 The rehab center. Dawson and Audrey are following Toni Stark down the hallways at a distance that she cannot easily see them



 All right, wait, why are we still doing this? Werent you just blatantly telling me what a miserable failure I was? 

 Look, Dawson Leery, if there is one thing I have learned in rehab, well, other than some killer cats cradle, is that you have to believe in yourself. You are your own worst enemy and all that. 

 Youre not too convincing. 

 Sighs Come on. You are so much better than all the wannabes I grew up with. I mean, so you made a colossal fool out of yourself in front of some producer. I say... why not do it again? 

 Youre not just encouraging me because youve been in rehab for a month and youre bored out of your mind, are you? 

 Dawson, give a girl a break and dance, monkey, dance! 

Toni turns and walks around a corner out of view

 All right, she went in that room right there. 

 Oooh. 

The quickly turn the corner to see that they have walked in on a group session.

Counselor Hey, guys. Come on in. Dont be shy. Were here to help. 

 Actually, you know, were …

 No, you know what? Honey, this is gonna be good for us. 

Counselor Come on, guys, make some room. 

Two people give them their char and grab another from the side of the room

 Thank you. 

 Thanks. 



 The party. There is another montage of people having a great time together. Emma runs up to the Keg and does a handstand on it while two guys hold her legs and another begins to pour beer from the tap into her mouth. Jack and  are standing next to the new TV watching this go on.



 Do we really have to co-habitat with this guy? 

 Whoa. Whoa. She didnt mention anything about that. 

One of the guys were counting and gets to ten, and Emma falls back down to the ground

 Well, yeah, I think its part of the marital-bliss deal. I mean, free room and board, the occasional unwanted groping, its the only reason hes doing it. 

 You gotta be kidding me. 

 What, youre shocked? 

 I--I--I just dont get it, I guess.

 I mean, you know, I understand Emmas in a bind, but, you know, she coulda said something. 

 Yeah, I know. 

 And this creep. I mean, who marries someone they dont love? 

They both look over and see Gus slap Emma on the ass as she walks by.

 That kinda creep. 

 Kinda creep thats kinda givin up hope. 

 When you stop to think about it, it really must suck to be him. 





 in one of the other rooms of the apartment.  walks into the room, and sees CJ sitting in a window sill holding a drink in his hands.



 So you havin fun? 

CJ Oh, yeah. 

 Yeah. So youre drinking? 

CJ You know, Id be much more inclined to answer your question if you werent lookin at me like I just...killed grams drunk driving. 

 Im just curious. 

CJ Well, your friend offered me a drink, and it seemed rude to say no, so—

 So thats it? Years of sobriety shot to hell over a question of etiquette with a guy who threatened to punch you in your face? 

CJ I dont expect you to understand. 

 Well, thank god for that. 

CJ No, I just-- I didnt want to get into it with a stranger. You know... but thanks for telling him, incidentally. 

 Telling him what? 

CJ That I dont drink, apparently. Now hes apologizing to me like Im dying or something. 

 Well, you know, it is a disease. 

CJ I know that, . I, uh, I trained you. Remember? 

 Y-yeah, no, I know. I know, so why is this coming up? Because for as long as Ive known you, youve operated on a certain set of rules to the point where I didnt think that a day would go by if you werent sticking to the  Plan. 

CJ Well, did it ever occur to you that maybe I realized I was too strict with myself? That maybe I wouldnt even be here right now if I was sticking to the so-called  Plan? 

 Well, if this is gonna happen, then maybe you shouldnt be here with me. 

CJ Why? Because Ive been sitting here for the past hour considering on whether or not to take a drink? Id be more concerned about your friend Joey over there. She tried to tell me you killed somebody. 

 Wait, Im sorry, so you--you havent been drinking? 

CJ Oh, is that gonna magically change all the conclusions you just jumped to? 

 Well, yes. 

CJ Well, it doesnt work that way, . Yeah, Ive been thinking about it, fine. Just like Ive been thinking about trying some normalcy with you, but apparently you find that wildly insulting. 

 No. No, look, I just dont want-- I just dont want whatever happens between us to be detrimental to either of us. 

CJ Are you trying to get outta something here? If you are, just tell me. 

 No, I am not trying to get out of anything. I dont even know what Im getting into. 

CJ Well, then why are you making excuses for why this wont work? I mean, its pretty hypocritical given our history, isnt it? 



 The rehab center. Audrey and Dawson are sitting in the group session. Dawson seems out of place, but Audrey looks like she is trying to make the best of the situation.



Counselor Whats your name? 

 Southern accent My name is pinky. They call me that because a ferret bit off my pinky toe when I was 10, and that is when I turned to the drink. 

Counselor Ok. What is it that youd like to tell your friend here? 

 Oh, he is more than just a friend, more than just a cousin. We got married real young. Right after the second baby, was it? And then there were some more, but I lost track. Theyre with mom now in Vegas, but Dawson here, he was always real good to me. Even when I beat him because he knew that I didnt mean it. He knew it was just the alcohol talkin, right? 

 You did do some things that were more violent than that. 

 Well, like what, honey? 

 Well, how bout the time you drove the car through the house and damn near killed us all? 

 Hes right about the car. Yeah. There were some things that I did that I probably wouldnt have if I werent drinkin. 

Counselor What other things, fingy? 

 Well... like tellin people things they didnt need to hear just cause I wanted to see the looks on their faces. You know, pushin people away who were just tryin to help me. Dawson here, he was always... real quiet about it, though. Not judgmental, really, just, you know, kept pickin me up over and over again. 

Counselor And why do you suppose he did that? 

 I dont really know. I think hes just... the kinda guy who always believes the best in people. And he deserved more than just... the destruction of his property, I suppose. 

 Its ok, though. We can fix that. 

 Whispering But I couldve really hurt you. 

 Yeah, but I think you needed to hit rock bottom before you snapped out of it. 

 Yeah, but I didnt hit rock bottom until a couple of weeks after that. 

 Maybe you just needed to hit it really hard. 

 Laughing Southern accent Do you think... that there is still a house for me to come home to after all the constructions done and what not? 

 I promise. 

 Oh! Dawson, lets have another baby. 

Toni Applause Listen, Im all for makin a mockery of rehab, but can we please move this along? Blondie over here is from Beverly Hills, and she tried to take me for 2 packs last night, and her boyfriend here is, I dont know, a key grip. 

Counselor Is this true? 

 Actually I was assistant to the director. I ended up directing the re-shoots myself, and, Toni, if youd allow me to show you my reel—

Counselor Ok, thatll be quite enough of that. Thank you very much. You two obviously dont belong here. 

 Gasps Do you mean Im cured? 

Counselor No, I mean youre on dish duty tonight. Ill tell betty. Now, please, let conduct this session in peace. 

 Sorry. 

Toni Buh-bye now. 

They get up and leave

 It went well.



 The Party. Joey has gotten, ,  and CJ, David and Jack, Emma and Gus all together to play spin the bottle. Everyone except Joey rather not be playing this game.



 You killing me with this, right, Joey? 

 I most certainly am not. Now dont be a spoil sport. Come on. 

 Ok, fine, but I--Im not kissing him. 

points at Gus

 Well, whats fair is fair, right? Come on, Gustav, spin. 

Gus spins the bottle and it ends up pointing at Joey.

 New rule-- no tongue. 

 No, no, no, no. Whats fair is fair, and dont mess with me because Ive killed before. 

 Whispering I know. to CJ See? 

Gus No tongue? Screw that. 

Gus gets up and goes over and licks the side of Joeys Cheek. He sits back down and Joey wipes her face with her sleeve, and everyone looks disgusted.

 Ok. Well? 

She spins the bottle and it ends on Jack

 Jack! 

They kiss, and then Jack spins the bottle and it ends on Emma, and Jack kisses Emma. Emma spins the bottle and it ends on .

 Oh. 

 and Emma give each other a quick kiss after a little giggle.  spins the bottle and it ends on CJ.

 Wait. Thats not fair. You guys get to kiss all the time. Whats the fun in that? 

CJ Not tonight. Theres rules to be followed, yeah? 

 Oh, shut up. 

They kiss rather passionately, and Jack just sits impatiently. Everyone stares as they begin to make out right there. 

 Ok. 

 Ugh, yeah. 

CJ Im a little thirsty. Do you need a—

 ok. Yeah, lets. 

 and CJ quickly get up and leave them.

 Oh, hey, whoa. This isnt like... 7 minutes in heaven. You guys have to come back. 

 You just wanna kiss . 

 Ok, regardless, they forfeit their turn. 

He gets up and spins the bottle, and it lands on Joey. Who smiles

 Mmm. Well... Drunkenly trying to act sexydoo-doo doo-doo all right. Whispering Lay one on me, pace. 

Just as  is about to kiss Joey, Gus who is standing on the new TV falls

Gus Oh! 

Crash 

 Oh, youre gonna die! 

Gus I just-- I just wanted to see how much weight it would hold. 

 What have you done?! 

Gus I didnt—

 What have you done?! I will kill you. I will kill you for this do you understand?! 

Emma quickly sees that  is serious and quickly gets  to release Gus and stands between them

 Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Aaaah! 

She pops Gus upside the head with her hand

 Idiot! Dont worry about this. Ill take care of it. 

 No! No! No! Kill you! 

Emma pushes Gus towards the door to the apartment

What about my stuff? 

 Oh, Ill throw it on the curb. 

Gus Yeah. Ok, but—

 the wedding is off. 

Gus Um, we-- we havent done it yet. 

 Yeah, Im aware of that, thank you. 

Gus Ok. 

She pushes him out the door, and  and Jack lift the TV back up and see the screen is smashed

 Oh, bertha. Crying 

 Oh, no. Jeez! 

Electrical snaps 

 Oh, Im gonna kill that little bastard. 

Joey stands up, rather drunk, not knowing what is going on.

 Wanna play sardines? 

she passes out and falls to the floor. 



Commercial Break



 Outside the Rehab Center. Audrey is walking Dawson out to his car. It is now evening out. 



 So theyre really gonna put you on dish duty, huh? 

 Oh, please, thats a godsend. It gets me out of kumbaya-ing for the night. 

 Well, why did you have to give us so many kids? 

 Whatever! Why did you have to get all earnest with the bag lady about the nature of the biz? Laughs Ohh. Sighs You know, it wasnt entirely fictional, the therapy session. I was feeling like there was some hardcore healing going on in there.

 Good. Just sucks you had to get in trouble to do it. 

 Dawson. Stalking some woman through the hallways and crashing a therapy session was more fun than I ever couldve imagined. You have no idea what a relief it was to just... not talk about myself and my problems all day. And darned if it didnt end up helping my problems out anyway. 

 Hate when that happens. 

 I know. You seem a little less self-absorbed than when you got here. You better get yourself back to L.A. Proper fast. 

 Yeah, really. I dont know, I think it was just seeing somebody I admire so much give up on life like that. I dont know, I might be floundering for my next move, but Im not that bad. 

 Dawson, I havent given up on life. 

 Im talking about Toni Stark. 

 Oh. Right. Giggles See? Youre good. The next time you come, you bring me Nyquil.

 There doesnt even have to be a next time. Youre almost outta here.

 I dont know, its like... as much as I hate it here, Im sorta scared more of whats beyond the gate cause its all kind of a blur, but... I dont think I left things on the best of terms out there. 

 It can all be just like it was. Minus the bad parts. 

 You know, actually, I kinda dont think I can, but... kinda glad about that. Giggles

 Come here.

They hug. 

 Sighs Thank you. 

 Bye. 

 See ya. 



 the couch in front of the now busted TV. David and Jack are sitting there looking at the broken TV and talking.



 So, uh, you really used to go out with, uh, Joey, huh? 

 Uh...ahem. Who have you been talking to tonight? 

 Well, maybe if you didnt keep ditching me to go make out with women—

 I was just playing by the rules. Besides, Joey was being very...adamant. What exactly did she tell you? 

 Nothing, really, but I would love to see your work sometime. 

 Laughs Ooh, no, I dont-- I dont-- I dont think so. Ahem. But I am sorry for being, uh, distracted tonight. Its just that, you know, this whole... Gus bomb that, uh, Emma dropped is just kinda shocking. 

 Yeah, but crisis averted. Its almost like it never happened. 

 Well, Im just worried. You know, I mean, I just--I had no idea that things were so desperate for her. Whats she gonna do now? 

 Hmm. Its a bad situation, you know, it isnt exactly your problem to solve. I mean, there isnt really much you can do unless you want to go marry her yourself. Chuckles

We can see that Jack is actually considering the thought



 s Bedroom.  and CJ have just had sex, and are lying underneath all of the coats that are piled up on the bed. CJ grabs his boxers and is about to start to get dressed when  stops him.



 Wait. What are you doing? Are you getting dressed? 

CJ Well, yeah. I think some people wanna get in here. 

 Dont. Make them wait. Their coats arent that nice anyway. 

CJ Well, youre the one rollin around in em. 

 I know. Exactly. Come here.

CJ Ok.

They begins kissing again 

CJ This sure beats arguing about whether or not Ive had a drink. 

 No, that was fun for a while, too. 

CJ Well, you werent entirely wrong. 

 Yeah, well, I wasnt entirely right, either. I mean... its your life, you know what youre doing with it. 

CJ Not really. But this is pretty nice right here. I got nervous tonight... when I saw... . Reminded me of all the--the drama. I dont know, I just-- I guess I just wanted to make you happy, try to be normal. 

 I would be unhappy if you were normal. Besides, I thought thats what I was trying to do. I had this plan that I was not going to have a drink tonight, and you and I were just going to talk about philosophy. 

CJ Thats not normal party behavior. 

 I dont care about any of that stuff anymore. I mean, I just wanna...do this. Can--can we do this? 

CJ This? Think we just did, and I think some coat owners arent gonna be too happy with the result. 

 Seriously, I-- I dont wanna date the idea of you, and I dont want you to fall for some false idea of me. 

CJ You tried faking me out before, remember? Youre not very good at it. 

 I know. We should get outta here.

CJ Youre gonna have to surrender this coat first, you know that? 

 No, this is Joeys coat. She has enough coats. 

He points to the coat that  is lying underneath

CJ Come on, lets go get wasted. 

 Mmm. Totally, dude. 

He gets up, but  lies there for a sec holding Joeys coat to her



 The kitchen. Jack and Emma are seeing people as they leave the party. The party has wrapped up and the place is a mess.



Guys Bye. 

 See ya, guys. 

the last of the guests leave, and Emma and Jack begin cleaning up

 So, where do you think  And  came from? 

 I dont even want to think about it. Look, Im sorry about your, um... failed marriage and everything.

 Yeah, thanks, Jack, the sympathy is just oozing from your voice. 

 All right, well, between a loveless marriage and--and going home, dont you think going home would be a little bit better? I mean, you know, at least youd have some time to figure some things out. 

 My folks are great, dont get me wrong, but it is my moms dying wish to see me fail at this, and I just cant give her that satisfaction. You know, Id be there one day, shed have me tutoring the slow kids on the triangle. Its musical suicide. Im not looking for love right now. When I find it, it usually kicks my ass. 

Chuckles 

 And if at some point some Christian bale type does descend upon me, so to speak... Ill just, um... 

 Yeah. 

 Ill dump the poor sap I married. Hmm. 

 Well, Im gonna have to have a little bit of private time with that, uh, Christian bale type before I can let you marry him. Laughs 

 Uh-uh.

 You actually, I--I... I would be the perfect husband. You know, I can help you check out guys, I can...make sure theyre not gay. 

 Laughs Yes, it is rather a hassle when you find that out late in the game, isnt it 

 Plus, you know, I wouldnt be pawing you all the time like Gus. 

 Well, that sounds great. Lets get married, then. 

 Lets do it. 

 Laughs Yeah, um... how much have you had to drink? 

 Im just tryin to help you out. I mean, we already live together, right? 

 Look, why do you think I asked Gus? Cause hes a nasty little creature who I dont care about. Its easier that way. I could never ask that big of a favor from a friend. I just--I couldnt. 

 Well, you dont have to cause... Im askin you. 

 Jack, you are too good. 

 Well, not really. I--I--I didnt get you a ring or—

 Thats a good point! No, you are. You are too good for that. I couldnt. 

 Sighs I would. 

 I know. I know you would, you madman. I wish I could take advantage of that. Nope. I cant ruin 2 lives. Laughs Its my mess. Ive got to face it. Ive been livin too long in fantasy land. Go dry those dishes. 



 s bedroom.  is carrying a passes out Joey upstairs into the bedroom, and goes over and lies her down on the bed.



 And here we are. Home, sweet... 

 Already? 

 Already. I know, its a long trip up from the living room. 

 That was fun. See, Im a lovely drunk. 

 You are indeed, Miss Potter. 

He takes off her boots

 I talked to so many new people tonight. People love me. 

 And they love it when you tell them your friends dirty little secrets. 

 Huh? 

 Nothing. Never mind. 

Joey is falling asleep and her speech keeps getting quieter and quieter

 It was a wonderful party, . Until all the smashes and stuff. 

 Yeah, the smashing was not so good. 

 Im sorry about the television thing. 

 Its ok. It happens. And I probably was getting a little too attached. 

 Cant have that. 

 No. But Im glad you had a good time. You deserved it. And you are a lovely and wise drunk, Miss Potter. 

Joey smiles and starts to push a hair off her face, before he arm just droops

 What you said earlier was right. I never did. How could I? Just look at you. 

Joey leans up groggily

 You know what else we never did? 

She kisses him

 Your turn now. 

She then passes out back onto the bed.

 Sweet dreams, Joey. 